---
layout: page
part_no: 15
title_no: 0
chapter_no: 1519
title: "Chapter 1519: Fireworks"
---

1519.01   Definitions.
1519.02   Public exhibition permit required; fee; bond; records.
1519.03   Unlawful conduct by exhibitor.
1519.04   Possession, sale ordischarge prohibited; exceptions.
1519.05   Application.
1519.99   Penalty.

## Cross references

* Manufacturers to comply with building and zoning ordinances - see Ohio R.C. 3743.06(F)
* Wholesalers to comply with building and zoning ordinances - see Ohio R.C. 3743.19(G)
* Arrests, seizure of fireworks by certified fire safety inspector - see Ohio R.C. 3743.68
* Conflict of Fire Marshal’s rules with rules of Ohio Board of Building Standards - see Ohio R.C. 3781.11(D)

## 1519.01   Definitions

As used in this chapter:

1. _(a)_ "Beer" and "intoxicating liquor" have the same meanings as in Ohio R.C.
4301.01.

2. _(b)_ "Booby trap" means a small tube that has a string protruding from both
ends, that has a friction-sensitive composition and that is ignited by pulling
the ends of the string.

3. _(c)_ "Cigarette load" means a small wooden peg that is coated with a small
quantity of explosive composition and that is ignited in a cigarette.

4. _(d)_

    1. _(1)_ “1.3 G fireworks” means display fireworks consistent with regulations of
    the United States Department of Transportation as expressed using the
    designation “Division 1.3" in Title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.

    2. _(2)_ “1.4 G fireworks” means consumer fireworks consistent with
    regulations of the United States Department of Transportation as expressed
    using the designation “Division 1.4" in Title 49, Code of Federal
    Regulations.

5. _(e)_ "Controlled substance" has the same meaning as in Ohio R.C. 3719.01.

6. _(f)_ "Fireworks" means any composition or device prepared for the purpose of
producing a visible or an audible effect by combustion, deflagration or
detonation, except ordinary matches and except as provided in Section 1519.05.

7. _(g)_ "Licensed exhibitor of fireworks" or "licensed exhibitor" means a
person licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.50 to 3743.55.

8. _(h)_ "Licensed manufacturer of fireworks" or "licensed manufacturer" means a
person licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.02 to 3743.08.

9. _(i)_ "Licensed wholesaler of fireworks" or "licensed wholesaler" means a
person licensed pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.15 to 3743.21.

10. _(j)_ "Novelties and trick noisemakers" include the following items:

    1. _(1)_ Devices that produce a small report intended to surprise the user,
    including, but not limited to, booby traps, cigarette loads, party poppers
    and snappers;

    2. _(2)_ Snakes or glow worms;

    3. _(3)_ Smoke devices;

    4. _(4)_ Trick matches.

11. _(k)_ "Party popper" means a small plastic or paper item that contains not
more than sixteen milligrams of friction-sensitive explosive composition, that
is ignited by pulling string protruding from the item, and from which paper
streamers are expelled when the item is ignited.

12. _(l)_ "Railroad" means any railway or railroad that carries freight or
passengers for hire, but does not include auxiliary tracks, spurs and sidings
installed and primarily used in serving a mine, quarry or plant.

13. _(m)_ "Smoke device" means a tube or sphere that contains pyrotechnic
composition that, upon ignition, produces white or colored smoke as the primary
effect.

14. _(n)_ "Snake or glow worm" means a device that consists of a pressed pellet
of pyrotechnic composition that produces a large, snake-like ash upon burning,
which ash expands in length as the pellet burns.

15. _(o)_ "Snapper" means a small, paper-wrapped item that contains a minute
quantity of explosive composition coated on small bits of sand, and that, when
dropped, implodes.

16. _(p)_ "Trick match" means a kitchen or book match that is coated with a
small quantity of explosive composition and that, upon ignition, produces a
small report or a shower of sparks.

17. _(q)_ “Wire sparkler” means a sparkler consisting of a wire or stick coated
with a non-explosive pyrotechnic mixture that produces a shower of sparks upon
ignition and that contains no more than one hundred grams of this mixture.  
(ORC 3743.01)

## 1519.02   Public exhibition permit required; fee; bond; records

1. _(a)_ A licensed exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a public
fireworks exhibition within the Municipality shall apply for approval to conduct
the exhibition to the Fire Chief and from the Police Chief or other similar
chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the Police Chief or similar
chief law enforcement officer.  

The required approval shall be evidenced by the Fire Chief or Fire Prevention
Officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer,
or the designee of the Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer,
signing a permit for the exhibition, the form for which shall be prescribed by
the State Fire Marshal. Any exhibitor of fireworks who wishes to conduct a
public fireworks exhibition may obtain a copy of the form from the Fire Marshal
or, if it is available, from the Fire Chief, Fire Prevention Officer, Police
Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or the designee of the
Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer.

2. _(b)_ Before a permit is signed and issued to a licensed exhibitor of
fireworks, the Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer in consultation with the
Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of
such Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, shall inspect the
premises on which the exhibition will take place and shall determine that, in
fact, the applicant for the permit is a licensed exhibitor of fireworks. Each
applicant shall show the applicant’s license as an exhibitor of fireworks to the
Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer.  

The Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer and the Police Chief or other similar
chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or similar
chief law enforcement officer, shall give approval to conduct a public fireworks
exhibition only if satisfied, based on the inspection, that the premises on
which the exhibition will be conducted allow the exhibitor to comply with the
rules adopted by the Fire Marshal pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3743.53 (B) and (E) and
that the applicant is, in fact, a licensed exhibitor of fireworks. The Fire
Chief or Fire Prevention Officer in consultation with the Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or
similar chief law enforcement officer, may inspect the premises immediately
prior to the exhibition to determine if the exhibitor has complied with the
rules, and may revoke the permit for noncompliance with the rules.

3. _(c)_ The Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer and the Police Chief shall
not issue a permit until the applicant pays a permit fee of one hundred twenty-
five dollars ($125.00) plus any necessary costs of investigation of the
applicant and of inspecting the premises on which the exhibition will be
conducted.  
(Ord. 1990-79. Passed 10-8-90; Ord. 2005-28. Passed 6-13-05.)

Each exhibitor shall provide an indemnity bond in the amount of at least one
million dollars ($1,000,000), with surety satisfactory to the Fire Chief or Fire
Prevention Officer and to Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement
officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement
officer, conditioned for the payment of all final judgments that may be rendered
against the exhibitor on account of injury, death or loss to persons or property
emanating from the fireworks exhibition, or proof of insurance coverage of at
least one million dollars ($1,000,000) for liability arising from injury, death
or loss to persons or property emanating from the fireworks exhibition. The
Legislative Authority may require the exhibitor to provide an indemnity bond or
proof of insurance coverage in amounts greater than those required by this
subsection. The Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer and Police Chief or other
similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or
similar chief law enforcement officer, shall not issue a permit until the
exhibitor provides the bond or proof of the insurance coverage required by this
subsection.

4. _(d)_

    1. _(1)_ Each permit for a fireworks exhibition issued by the Fire Chief or
    Fire Prevention Officer and by the Police Chief or other similar chief law
    enforcement officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or similar chief law
    enforcement officer, shall contain a distinct number, designate the
    Municipality, and identify the certified Fire Safety Inspector, Fire Chief
    or Fire Prevention Officer who will be present before, during, and after the
    exhibition, where appropriate. A copy of each permit issued shall be
    forwarded by the Fire Chief or Fire Prevention Officer and by the Police
    Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of such
    Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer, issuing it to the
    Fire Marshal, who shall keep a record of the permits received. A permit is
    not transferable or assignable.
    2. _(2)_ The Fire Chief, Fire Prevention Officer and Police Chief or other
    similar chief law enforcement officer, or a designee of such Police Chief or
    similar chief law enforcement officer, shall keep a record of issued permits
    for fireworks exhibitions. In this list, the Fire Chief, Fire Prevention
    Officer, Police Chief or other similar chief law enforcement officer, or a
    designee of such Police Chief or similar chief law enforcement officer,
    shall list the name of the exhibitor, the exhibitor’s license number, the
    premises on which the exhibition will be conducted, the date and time of the
    exhibition and the number of the permit issued to the exhibitor for the
    exhibition.

5. _(e)_ The governing authority having jurisdiction in the location where an
exhibition is to take place shall require that a certified Fire Safety
Inspector, Fire Chief, or Fire Prevention Officer be present before, during, and
after the exhibition, and shall require the certified Fire Safety Inspector,
Fire Chief, or Fire Prevention Officer to inspect the premises where the
exhibition is to take place and determine whether the exhibition is in
compliance with this chapter and Ohio R.C. Chapter 3743.  
(ORC 3743.54)

## 1519.03   Unlawful conduct by exhibitor

1. _(a)_ No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall fail to comply with the
applicable requirements of the rules adopted by the Fire Marshal pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 3743.53(B) and (E) or to comply with Divisions (C) and (D) of that
section.

2. _(b)_ No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall conduct a fireworks exhibition
unless a permit has been secured for the exhibition pursuant to Section 1519.02
or if a permit so secured is revoked by the Fire Chief or Fire Prevention
Officer in consultation with the Police Chief or other similar chief law
enforcement official or a designee of such Police Chief or other similar law
enforcement official pursuant to that section.

3. _(c)_ No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall acquire fireworks for use at a
fireworks exhibition other than in accordance with Ohio R.C. 3743.54 and
3743.55.

4. _(d)_ No licensed exhibitor of fireworks or other person associated with the
conduct of a fireworks exhibition shall have possession or control of, or be
under the influence of, any intoxicating liquor, beer or controlled substance
while on the premises on which the exhibition is being conducted.

5. _(e)_ No licensed exhibitor of fireworks shall permit an employee to assist
the licensed exhibitor in conducting fireworks exhibitions unless the employee
is registered with the Fire Marshal under Ohio R.C. 3743.56.  
(ORC 3743.64)

## 1519.04   Possession, sale or discharge prohibited; exceptions

1. _(a)_ No person shall possess fireworks in this Municipality or shall possess
for sale or sell fireworks in this Municipality, except a licensed manufacturer
of fireworks as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.02 to 3743.08, a licensed
wholesaler of fireworks as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.15 to 3743.21, a
shipping permit holder as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.40, an out-of-state
resident as authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.44, a resident of this State as
authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.45, or a licensed exhibitor of fireworks as
authorized by Ohio R.C. 3743.50 to 3743.55 and Section 1519.02 and except as
provided in Section 1519.05.

2. _(b)_ Except as provided in Section 1519.05 and except for licensed
exhibitors of fireworks authorized to conduct a fireworks exhibition pursuant to
Ohio R.C. 3743.50 to 3743.55 and Section 1519.02, no person shall discharge,
ignite or explode any fireworks in this Municipality.

3. _(c)_ No person shall use in a theater or public hall, what is technically
known as fireworks showers, or a mixture containing potassium chlorate and
sulphur.

4. _(d)_ No person shall sell fireworks of any kind to a person under eighteen
years of age. No person under eighteen years of age shall enter a fireworks
sales showroom unless that person is accompanied by a parent, legal guardian, or
other responsible adult. No person under eighteen years of age shall touch or
possess fireworks on a licensed premises without the consent of the licensee. A
licensee may eject any person from a licensed premises that is in any way
disruptive to the safe operation of the premises.

5. _(e)_  Except as otherwise provided in Ohio R.C. 3743.44, no person, other
than a licensed manufacturer, licensed wholesaler, licensed exhibitor, or
shipping permit holder, shall possess 1.3 G fireworks.  
(ORC 3743.65)

## 1519.05   Application

This chapter does not prohibit or apply to the following:

1. _(a)_ The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use in
emergency situations, of pyrotechnic signaling devices and distress signals for
marine, aviation or highway use;

2. _(b)_ The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
fusees, torpedoes or other signals necessary for the safe operation of
railroads;

3. _(c)_ The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
blank cartridges in connection with theaters or shows, or in connection with
athletics as signals or for ceremonial purposes;

4. _(d)_ The manufacture for, the transportation, storage, possession or use by,
or sale to the Armed Forces of the United States and the militia of this State
of pyrotechnic devices;

5. _(e)_ The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
toy pistols, toy canes, toy guns or other devices in which paper or plastic caps
containing twenty-five hundredths grains or less of explosive material are used,
provided that they are constructed so that a hand cannot come into contact with
a cap when it is in place for explosion, or apply to the manufacture, sale,
possession, transportation, storage or use of those caps;

6. _(f)_ The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
novelties and trick noisemakers, auto burglar alarms or model rockets and model
rocket motors designed, sold and used for the purpose of propelling recoverable
aero models;

7. _(g)_ The manufacture, sale, possession, transportation, storage or use of
wire sparklers.

8. _(h)_ The conduct of radio-controlled special effect exhibitions that use an
explosive black powder charge of not more than one-quarter pound per charge, and
that are not connected in any manner to propellant charges, provided that the
exhibition complies with all of following:

    1. _(1)_ No explosive aerial display is conducted in the exhibition;

    2. _(2)_ The exhibition is separated from spectators by not less than two
    hundred feet;
    3. _(3)_ The person conducting the exhibition complies with regulations of
    the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms of the United States Department
    of the Treasury and the United States Department of Transportation with
    respect to the storage and transport of the explosive black powder used in
    the exhibition.  
    (ORC 3743.80)

## 1519.99   Penalty

Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is guilty of a misdemeanor of the
first degree for a first offense and shall be fined not more than one thousand
dollars ($1,000) or imprisoned not more than six months or both.  
(ORC 3743.99(C))
