---
layout: chapter
part_no: 11
title_no: 5
chapter_no: 1143
title: "Chapter 1143: Signs"
---

## Sections

* [1143.01   Intent](#114301-intent)
* [1143.02   Conformance required](#114302-conformance-required)
* [1143.03   Definitions and references](#114303-definitions-and-references)
* [1143.04   Signs prohibited](#114304-signs-prohibited)
* [1143.05   Permits](#114305-permits)
* [1143.06   Number and type of signs permitted: nonresidential districts](#114306-number-and-type-of-signs-permitted-nonresidential-districts)
* [1143.07   Number and types of signs permitted: residential districts](#114307-number-and-types-of-signs-permitted-residential-districts)
* [1143.08   Design standards](#114308-design-standards)
* [1143.09   Temporary signs](#114309-temporary-signs)
* [1143.10   General provisions](#114310-general-provisions)

## Cross references

* Conservation District - see P. & Z. 1121.05

## 1143.01   Intent

Sign regulations, including provisions to control the type, design, size,
illumination, movement, materials, condition and location thereof, are
established in order to achieve, among others, the following purposes:

1. _(a)_ To protect and maintain property values;

2. _(b)_ To provide for reasonable and appropriate means of communication;

3. _(c)_ To protect and enhance the unique historic and aesthetic character of
the Municipality;

4. _(d)_ To eliminate any conflict that would be hazardous between traffic
control signs and devices and signs not related to the function of traffic
control;

5. _(e)_ To ensure a safe and orderly pedestrian and vehicular environment;

6. _(f)_ To reduce visual clutter;

7. _(g)_ To promote economic development; and,

8. _(h)_ To achieve an appropriate balance between visual displays as a means of
communication and reducing the harms caused by such displays.  
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1143.02   Conformance required

1. _(a)_ Signs shall be designed, erected, altered, reconstructed, moved or
maintained, in whole or in part, in accordance with the type, design, size,
location, illumination and other provisions set forth in this chapter.

2. _(b)_ The construction, erection, safety and maintenance of all signs shall
also comply with the provisions of the Building Code of the Municipality.

3. _(c)_ The display of the flag of any governmental agency shall not be
governed by the provisions of these regulations.  
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1143.03   Definitions and references

As used in this chapter, unless the context otherwise indicates:

1. _(a)_ "Awning" means a projection from a building wall intended primarily for
shelter or ornamentation and which can be retracted, folded or collapsed against
the face of the supporting building.

2. _(b)_ "Billboard" means a permanent sign directing attention to a commercial
activity conducted elsewhere than upon the lot on which the sign is located.

3. _(c)_ "Board" means the Board of Zoning Appeals of the Municipality as
created by Article VII of the Charter.

4. _(d)_ "Building unit" means a space occupying a portion of the ground floor
of a building, containing an exclusive entrance from the building exterior and
separated from all other ground floor spaces by a party wall or walls. For the
purposes of this Chapter regulations referring to a building shall apply to a
building unit if such building is divided into units.

5. _(e)_ "Canopy" means a projection from a building wall intended primarily for
shelter or ornamentation, and typically constructed to include a top element, or
cover, and front or side overhangs.

6. _(f)_ "Copy" means the letters, words, symbols or artwork displayed on a
sign.

7. _(g)_ "Erect" means to build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend or
affix, and shall also include the painting of wall signs.

8. _(h)_ "Facing" and "surface" mean the surface of the sign upon, against or
through which the message is displayed or illustrated on the sign.

9. _(i)_ "Ground sign" means any sign supported by uprights or braces attached
to the ground and not attached to any building.

10. _(j)_ "Height" means the height above finished grade and refers only to
ground (pole) signs unless otherwise indicated.

11. _(k)_ "Illuminated sign" means any sign which has characters, letters,
figures, designs or outline illuminated by electric lights or luminous tubes as
a part of the sign proper.

12. _(l)_ "Incidental sign" means a wall sign one (1) square foot or less in
area and not illuminated, or, a ground sign two (2) square feet in area, four
feet or less in height and not illuminated.

13. _(m)_ "Marquee" means a projection from a building wall intended for the
display of signs and secondarily, for shelter or ornamentation, and typically
constructed to include a top element, or cover, and a bottom element, or soffit
connected by vertical faces on three sides.

14. _(n)_ "Multi-tenant building" means a nonresidential building served by a
common entrance that contains multiple uses.

15. _(o)_ "Permanent sign" means a sign permanently affixed or attached to the
ground, a building or a structure and which cannot be removed without special
handling such as removing or dismantling a foundation, fasteners, adhesives, or
similar materials providing support or structural integrity for the sign.

16. _(p)_ "Portable sign" means any sign other than a temporary sign which is
made of durable materials, designed to be moved and is not permanently attached
to any part of a building, structure, or to the ground.

17. _(q)_ "Projecting sign" means any sign with two faces that extends outward
at an angle from the wall to which it is attached.

18. _(r)_ "Roof sign" means any sign erected, constructed and maintained wholly
upon or over the roof or parapet wall of any building, with the principal
support on the roof structure.

19. _(s)_ "Sign" means any visual communication including but not limited to any
writing, pictorial representation, mural illustration, emblem, symbol, design,
drawing, banner, flag, placard, pennant, poster or other similar device that is
visible from a dedicated right of way, private street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public place and is used for purpose of advertisement, announcement,
declaration, demonstration, identification or expression or directing attention
to a person, institution, organization, business, activity, place, object or
product.

20. _(t)_ "Sign panel" means a structural object or portion of a structural
object, including painted surfaces, designed to form a distinct background area
or frame for display of a sign's copy or information. However, an architectural
frame or space integral to a building's design and not differentiated from the
wall by color shall not be considered a sign panel.

21. _(u)_ "Temporary sign" means a sign constructed of cloth, paper, wood,
metal, fabric, or other material that is not intended to be permanently
installed in the ground nor permanently affixed to a building or structure and
is intended for use for a limited period of time.

22. _(v)_ "Wall sign" means any sign painted on, attached to, or erected against
or integrated into the wall of a building or structure, with the exposed face of
the sign in a plane parallel to the plane of the wall.

23. _(w)_ "Window sign" means any sign lettered directly on a window or placed
on the inside of a window so as to be read from the outside. The glass or clear
plastic portion of an exterior door shall be considered a window for purposes of
this definition.

24. _(x)_ References to "zoning districts" herein refer to the districts
established in Chapter 1119.  
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1143.04   Signs prohibited

In general, any sign that is not expressly authorized by this Chapter is
prohibited. Additionally, the following specific signs are prohibited:

1. _(a)_ Any sign attached to natural vegetation.

2. _(b)_ Any sign that, by reason of its location, illumination, movement, shape
or color, may interfere with, obstruct the view of, or be confused with, any
authorized traffic control device.

3. _(c)_ Any sign that shows evidence of inadequate maintenance or deterioration
including peeling paint, rust, dirt, fading, damage or discoloration.

4. _(d)_ Any sign located within a vision triangle of any public street
intersection or intersection of a public street with a private street, alley, or
driveway that has a height greater than two and one-half feet above curb level.
Such vision triangle shall be formed by lines drawn between points on any two
streets, or on any street and alley or driveway twenty-five (25) feet from their
point of intersection.

5. _(e)_ Any sign that displays flashing, scrolling or intermittent lights or
lights of changing degrees of intensity.

6. _(f)_ Any sign that is internally illuminated, including those signs with
exposed neon tubing, signs with a light source located in the interior of the
sign, or signs whose light source is attached to or near the sign in a manner
that allows the light to be seen through the face of the sign.

7. _(g)_ Any permanent sign placed upon or projecting over any public land,
street, sidewalk or other public right-of-way, except as expressly permitted in
Section 1143.06(d).

8. _(h)_ Roof signs.

9. _(i)_ Any sign that is painted on sidewalks or curbs.

10. _(j)_ Marquee signs.

11. _(k)_ Billboards.

12. _(l)_ Portable signs.  
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1143.05   Permits

1. _(a)_ **Permit Required.**  A sign permit is required to erect, repair,
alter, relocate or maintain any sign except those exempted in subsection (f)
herein provided however, that minor repairs or maintenance of signs not
involving structural changes may be undertaken without first obtaining a permit.

2. _(b)_ **Application for Permit.** Application for sign permits shall be made
upon forms provided by the Administrator and shall contain or have attached
thereto the following information:

    1. _(1)_ The name, mailing address, e-mail address and telephone number of
    the applicant;

    2. _(2)_ The location of the building, structure or lot to which or upon
    which the sign is to be attached or erected;

    3. _(3)_ The position of the sign in relation to buildings or structures on
    contiguous lots;

    4. _(4)_ Two scale drawings, blueprints or ink, as well as a digital version
    in a format acceptable to the Municipality, of the plans and specifications
    of each sign indicating all dimensions, materials, colors, type of lettering
    illumination, method of construction and means of attachment to the building
    or ground;

    5. _(5)_ The name of the person erecting the sign;

    6. _(6)_ Written consent of the owner of the building, structure or land to
    which or on which the sign is to be erected;

    7. _(7)_ Photograph of the area of the building upon which a wall sign is to
    be placed;

    8. _(8)_ Such other information as the Administrator shall require, to show
    full compliance with this and all other ordinances of the Municipality;

    9. _(9)_ Payment of the nonrefundable fee required by Section 1309.12 of the
    Building Code.

3. _(c)_ **Referral of Application to Architectural Board of Review.** Approval
of the Architectural Board of Review shall be obtained before issuance of any
permit required hereunder.

4. _(d)_ **Issuance of Permit.** The Administrator, upon the filing of an
application for a sign permit, shall examine all required plans and
specifications as well as the premises upon which the sign is to be placed. If
the proposed sign is in compliance with all the requirements of this chapter and
all other ordinances of the Municipality, and the Architectural Board of Review
has approved the sign application, the sign permit shall be issued. If the work
authorized under the sign permit has not been completed within six months after
date of issuance, the permit shall become null and void.

5. _(e)_ **Revocability of Permits.** The Administrator may revoke any sign
permit for noncompliance with any provisions of this chapter or
misrepresentation of fact on the permit application. All rights and privileges
acquired under the provisions of this chapter or any amendment hereof are mere
licenses, and all sign permits shall contain this provision.

6. _(f)_ **Permit Exemptions.** The permit provisions of this section shall not
apply to the following signs; such signs, however, are still subject to the
regulations provided for in this chapter:

    1. _(1)_ Temporary signs as regulated in Section 1143.09.

    2. _(2)_ Incidental signs.

    3. _(3)_ Cornerstones and other similar building plaques or architectural
    elements permanently incorporated into a building and not exceeding two (2)
    square feet in total area.  
    (Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1143.06   Number and type of signs permitted: nonresidential districts

In nonresidential districts, permanent signs shall be permitted as follows:

1. _(a)_ **General.**  Unless otherwise allowed by this section, a maximum of
two permanent signs shall be permitted for each building.

    1. _(1)_ One sign may be displayed as a ground sign.

    2. _(2)_ In the Central Shopping, Retail Business, and Office Districts, one
    sign may be displayed as a projecting sign.

    3. _(3)_ Any one use shall not display both a projecting sign and a ground
    sign.

    4. _(4)_ Signs that are not considered incidental signs may be illuminated
    by an external light source.

2. _(b)_ **Wall Signs.**

    1. _(1)_ Wall signs for each building shall not exceed twelve square feet in
    combined area, except as permitted in Section 1143.06(c)(2) below.

    2. _(2)_ Wall signs which occupy a single space two feet or less in vertical
    dimension may extend to a width ninety percent (90%) or less of the width
    and length of the building or unit.

    3. _(3)_ Permanent window signs shall be regulated as wall signs for the
    purposes of this section.

3. _(c)_ **Ground Signs.**

    1. _(1)_ In addition to those signs permitted in Section 1143.06(a), one
    additional ground sign shall be permitted for each lot with a frontage of at
    least 120 feet measured along the line providing principal access to the
    building(s) on such lot. The minimum spacing between ground signs on the
    same lot shall be twenty- five feet.

    2. _(2)_ Ground signs shall be twenty square feet or less in area and six
    feet or less above finished grade in height except that a ground sign
    located in a vision triangle of any public street intersection or
    intersection of a public street with a private street, alley, or driveway
    shall be two and one- half feet or less above curb level.

    3. _(3)_ Ground signs shall not be located nearer the street than the
    required building line nor shall such signs be located less than twenty feet
    from an interior side lot line. However, a ground sign which does not exceed
    twelve square feet in area and is situated within a landscaped area may be
    located as close as five feet to any street right-of-way line and ten feet
    to an interior side lot line. Such landscaped area shall be bounded by
    curbing or other effective vehicular barriers and shall be sufficient in
    size so that all portions of the sign are set back at least eighteen inches
    from its perimeter.

4. _(d)_ **Projecting Signs.**

    1. _(1)_ Projecting signs shall be limited to two faces with each face
    twelve (12) square feet or less. However, an additional three-inch border or
    frame may be permitted to provide ornamental design. The maximum horizontal
    dimension shall be four (4) feet. The maximum vertical dimension shall be
    four and one-half (4 1/2) feet.

    2. _(2)_ The lowest point of a projecting sign or part thereof shall be at
    least eight feet above a sidewalk or other walkway and at least fifteen feet
    above a driveway or private road. Projecting signs or parts thereof shall
    not extend nearer than one foot to a curb line of any street. Also,
    projecting signs shall not extend a distance greater than two feet from the
    wall to which it is attached, measuring from the point of the sign nearest
    thereto.

    3. _(3)_ **Erection.** Projecting signs exceeding fifty pounds in weight
    shall not be attached to or supported by frame buildings or the wooden
    framework of a building. Projecting signs shall not be secured with wire,
    strips of wood or nails, or be hung or secured to any other sign.

5. _(e)_ **Awnings and Canopies.** Sign copy may be painted or otherwise
permanently affixed to a ground floor awning or canopy in a space not exceeding
eight inches in height on the front and side portions thereof.

6. _(f)_ **Secondary and Rear Entrances.** In addition to those signs permitted
in Section 1143.06(a), buildings or units thereof with a secondary or rear
customer entrance shall be permitted an additional wall or window sign six
square feet or less in area. Such signs shall be located in proximity to the
secondary or rear entrance.

7. _(g)_ **Multi-tenant buildings.**  In multi-tenant buildings, the allowable
sign area for all tenants shall not exceed the maximum sign area computed as if
there were a single tenant. The property owner shall be responsible for
allocating the permitted sign area among tenants in a multi-tenant building.

8. _(h)_ **Upper Floor Uses.** In Business Districts, any use located on the
second floor of a building or above shall be permitted one permanent window sign
twelve square feet or less in area. In addition to a permanent window sign,
upper floor uses with an exclusive ground floor entrance may display a wall
sign, two square feet or less, at such entrance.  
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1143.07   Number and types of signs permitted: residential districts

In all residential districts, permanent signs shall be permitted as follows:

1. _(a)_ **General.**

    1. _(1)_ Dwelling units that are permitted in the Cluster and RMU Overlay
    Districts shall be deemed to be in a residential district regardless of the
    underlying zoning district.

    2. _(2)_ Signs that are not considered incidental signs may be illuminated
    by an external light source.

    3. _(3)_ Signs permitted under this section shall be twelve square feet in
    area or less.

    4. _(4)_ Ground signs permitted under this section shall be set back five
    feet from any street right of way and ten feet to an interior lot line.
    Additionally, such signs shall be four feet or less in height except that a
    ground sign located in a vision triangle of any public street intersection
    or intersection of a public street with a private street, alley, or driveway
    shall be two and one-half feet or less above curb level.

2. _(b)_ **Dwelling Units.** One permanent sign shall be permitted for each
dwelling unit.

    1. _(1)_ Each single family and two-family dwelling unit may display either
    a ground or wall sign. Such sign shall require no permit.

    2. _(2)_ Each attached single family or multi-family family dwelling unit
    may display a wall sign. Such sign shall require no permit.

3. _(c)_ **Residential Developments.** Each residential development shall be
permitted one sign located near the entrance to the development. Such sign shall
be permitted only as a ground sign in single-family districts and only as a
ground, wall, awning or canopy sign in multi-family districts.

4. _(d)_ **Building Signs.** In multi-family developments of two or more
residential buildings, each building shall be permitted one wall, awning, canopy
or ground sign.

5. _(e)_ **Nonresidential Main Uses.**  One wall or ground sign may be permitted
on the premises of a permitted nonresidential main use located in a residential
district.  
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1143.08   Design standards

In order to facilitate information legibility, traffic safety, general economic
vitality and the preservation of unique historic resources, signs should be
designed in a manner compatible with the character and style of immediate and
neighboring buildings and signs.

More specifically, signs shall be designed in accordance with the following
standards:

1. _(a)_ **Signs in Series.** Signs to be seen in series shall be designed with
continuity and compatibility in terms of style, materials, color, size and
location.

2. _(b)_ **Color.** The color of signs shall be compatible with the color of the
building facade to which they relate.

3. _(c)_ **Installation.** Wall signs shall be designed to fit within any given
frame of the architectural space intended for signage. The installation of any
sign shall not irreparably damage any building cornice, ornament or other
architectural details.

4. _(d)_ **Lighting.** Where permitted, lighting shall be in compliance with
Chapter 1150 of this Planning and Zoning Code and designed and located so that
light sources are shielded from creating glare in residential districts and
streets and shall not be of excessive brightness or cause a glare hazardous to
pedestrians or drivers.

5. _(e)_ **Construction.** All letters, figures, characters or representations
in cutout or irregular form, maintained in conjunction with, attached to or
superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to the
sign structure.

6. _(f)_ **Wall Signs.**

    1. _(1)_ Wall signs shall not be erected, relocated or maintained so as to
    prevent free ingress to, or egress from any door, window or fire escape.

    2. _(2)_ Wall signs shall not cover wholly or partially any wall opening.

    3. _(3)_ Wall signs shall not project beyond the ends or top of the building
    wall to which it is attached or be set out more than six inches from the
    face of the building to which it is attached.

7. _(g)_ **Awnings and Canopies.**

    1. _(1)_ Awnings or canopies shall not extend beyond a point twelve inches
    inside the curb line of the street.

    2. _(2)_ All awnings and canopies shall be constructed and erected so that
    the lowest portion thereof is at least eight feet above the level of the
    sidewalk.

    3. _(3)_ Awnings shall be constructed of such materials as may be approved
    by the Architectural Board of Review provided that all frames and support
    shall be metal. Every awning shall be attached to and supported by the
    building. Posts or columns beyond building lines shall not be permitted for
    awnings.

    4. _(4)_ Canopies shall be constructed of such materials as may be approved
    by the Architectural Board of Review. The framework of all canopies shall be
    approved by the Architectural Board of Review in compliance with the
    Building Code.  
    (Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1143.09   Temporary signs

Temporary signs shall be permitted only in accordance with the following
regulations:

1. _(a)_ **General.**

    1. _(1)_ Temporary signs shall not be illuminated.

    2. _(2)_ Temporary signs that show evidence of deterioration, dirt, damage,
    or discoloration shall be removed or replaced.

    3. _(3)_ Temporary signs shall be placed no closer than five feet from any
    right of way line or property line.

    4. _(4)_ The maximum height of a temporary sign shall be four feet except
    that a temporary sign located in a vision triangle of any public street
    intersection or intersection of a public street with a private street,
    alley, or driveway shall be two and one-half feet or less above curb level.

2. _(b)_ **Window Signs.** Interior temporary window signs that are intended to
be visible from the public right of way, private street or sidewalk may occupy
no more than thirty percent (30%) of the window area. The window area of each
building or unit thereof shall be measured to include all glass area of windows
and doors of the front façade. Glass area covered in a relatively permanent
manner by nontransparent material shall be excluded from this measurement.
Wherever possible, temporary window signs shall be clustered so that relatively
large portions of window area remain unobstructed.

3. _(c)_ **Wall and Ground Signs.** Temporary wall and ground signs that are
intended to be visible from the public right of way, private street or sidewalk,
may be displayed in compliance with the following regulations:

    1. _(1)_ One sign may be posted on property during active construction
    authorized by a Building Permit. Such sign shall not exceed twelve square
    feet in area.

    2. _(2)_ One sign may be posted on property that is actively marketed for
    sale or lease. Such sign shall not exceed twelve square feet in area.

    3. _(3)_ An additional twelve (12) square feet of non-commercial signage may
    be posted on a parcel.  
    (Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1143.10   General provisions

1. _(a)_ **Construction.** Permanent signs shall be constructed of permanent
materials, maintained in good condition at all times, kept free of cracked or
peeling paint, rust, missing or damaged sign panels or supports, and not
obscured by weeds, grass or other vegetation.

2. _(b)_ **Measurement Standards.**  The area of any sign shall be measured to
include the area of the smallest single rectangle enclosing all elements of the
sign, including letters, characters, designs, graphics and the space between the
elements of the sign. For ground signs with the two sides in parallel,
back-to-back arrangement, only one side of the sign shall be included in the
measurement of the area. In determining the location of a sign in relation to
lot lines, distances shall be measured from the vertical projection of the lot
line to the closest point on the sign. The height of a ground sign shall be
measured to the top of the sign panel. The supporting structure may extend a
maximum of two feet above the sign panel.

3. _(c)_ **Removal of Certain Signs.** When a commercial sign is not associated
with an existing commercial use of the property, or in the case of non-
commercial signage, when the owner abandons the use associated with the sign,
such sign shall be taken down and removed by the owner, agent or person having
the beneficial use of the building or structure upon which such sign may be
found, within ten days after written notification from the Administrator. Upon
failure to comply with such notice within the time specified in such order, the
Administrator is hereby authorized to cause removal of such sign, and any
expenses incident thereto shall be paid by the owner of the building to which
such sign is attached. Signs that are more than fifty years old, lawfully
installed and attached to or on the same lot as a historically significant
structure are considered to be of historic significance and are exempt from the
requirements of this sub-section.

4. _(d)_ **Unsafe and Unlawful Signs.** If the Administrator's inspection finds
that any sign regulated herein is unsafe or insecure or is a menace to the
public, or has been constructed or erected or is being maintained in violation
of any of the provisions of this chapter, notice shall be given in writing by
the Administrator to the permittee thereof. If the permittee fails to remove or
alter the sign so as to comply with the standards herein set forth within ten
days after such notice, such sign may be removed by the Administrator at the
expense of the permittee or owner of the property upon which it is located. The
Administrator shall refuse to issue a permit for a sign or a building permit to
any permittee or owner who refuses to pay costs so assessed. The Administrator
may cause any sign which is an immediate peril to persons or property to be
removed summarily and without notice, and give written notice of the sign
removal to the owner of the lot and/or use when feasible.

5. _(e)_ **Nonconforming Signs.** Signs lawfully erected but made nonconforming
by adoption of this Code or amendments thereto, are regulated by the provisions
of Section 1145.03(d).

6. _(f)_ **Presumption of Responsibility.** The owner or occupant of any
premises upon which a violation of any of the provisions of this chapter is
apparent or the owner of any sign placed or remaining anywhere in violation of
any of the provisions of this chapter shall be deemed prima-facie responsible
for the violation so evidenced and subject to the penalty provided therefor.

7. _(g)_ **Substitution of Noncommercial Message.** Noncommercial signs may be
substituted for any sign expressly permitted by this Chapter. Noncommercial
signs shall be subject to the same permit requirements, restrictions on size and
type, and other conditions and specifications that apply to the sign for which
they are being substituted.  
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)
