---
layout: chapter
part_no: 9
title_no: 5
chapter_no: 943
title: "Chapter 943: Small Cell Design Guidelines"
---

## Sections

* [943.01   Overview and purpose, definitions](#94301-overview-and-purpose-definitions)
* [943.02   General standards](#94302-general-standards)
* [943.03   Specifications for collocation](#94303-specifications-for-collocation)
* [943.04   Antennas](#94304-antennas)
* [943.05   Wireless support structure-mounted equipment](#94305-wireless-support-structure-mounted-equipment)
* [943.06   Ground-mounted small cell equipment](#94306-ground-mounted-small-cell-equipment)
* [943.07   Cables](#94307-cables)
* [943.08   Electrical meters](#94308-electrical-meters)
* [943.09   Utility lines](#94309-utility-lines)
* [943.10   Specifications for replacement of wireless support structures](#94310-specifications-for-replacement-of-wireless-support-structures)
* [943.11   Specifications for new wireless support structures](#94311-specifications-for-new-wireless-support-structures)
* [943.12   Historic District regulations](#94312-historic-district-regulations)
* [943.13   Underground area regulations](#94313-underground-area-regulations)
* [943.14   Discretionary waiver](#94314-discretionary-waiver)
* [943.99   Penalties; equitable remedies](#94399-penalties-equitable-remedies)

## Cross references

* Use of Public Ways for small cell wireless facilities and wireless support
structures - see S.& P.S. Ch. 941

## 943.01   Overview and purpose, definitions

1. _(a)_ The purpose of these Design Guidelines is to:

    1. _(1)_ Protect the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the
    Village;

    2. _(2)_ Preserve the character of the Village, including the Village's
    neighborhoods, downtown, other business districts and historic districts;

    3. _(3)_ Give guidance to wireless telecommunications providers to assist
    such companies in the timely, efficient, safe, and aesthetically pleasing
    installation of Facilities; and

    4. _(4)_ Comply with, and not conflict with or preempt, all applicable state
    and federal laws.

2. _(b)_ For the purpose of this Chapter, and the interpretation and enforcement
hereof, the following words and phrases shall have the following meanings,
unless the context of the sentence in which they are used shall indicate
otherwise:

    1. _(1)_ "Applicant" means any person or entity who submits an Application
    pursuant to this Chapter.

    2. _(2)_ "Application" means the form issued by Chief Administrative
    Officer, to be submitted by an Applicant to obtain a Small Cell Use Permit
    from the Village to Collocate a Small Cell Facility and/or to construct,
    maintain, modify, operate, or replace a Wireless Support Structure.

    3. _(3)_ "Accessory Equipment" means equipment used in conjunction with a
    Small Cell Facility and generally at the same location as, or in proximity
    to, the Small Cell Facility including, but not limited to, electric meters,
    concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding
    equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable
    runs.

    4. _(4)_ "Collocation" or "Collocate" means to install, mount, maintain,
    modify, operate, or replace wireless Facilities on a Wireless Support
    Structure.

    5. _(5)_ "Design Guidelines" means the standards established in this Chapter
    943.

    6. _(6)_ "Facilities" means Small Cell Facilities, Accessory Equipment, and
    Wireless Support Structures.

    7. _(7)_ "Facilities Operator" means the person or entity responsible for
    the installation, operation, maintenance, replacement, and modification of
    Facilities. Facilities Operator includes:

        1. _(i)_ Operators;

        2. _(ii)_ Applicants who applied for consent to Collocate a Small Cell
        Facility or to construct, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a new
        Wireless Support Structure pursuant to O.R.C. Section 4939.031(E) and
        who have obtained a Small Cell Use Permit; and

        3. _(iii)_ Applicants who applied for consent to Collocate a Small Cell
        Facility or to construct, maintain, modify, operate, or replace a new
        Wireless Support Structure pursuant to O.R.C. Section 4939.033 and who
        have obtained a Small Cell Use Permit.

    8. _(8)_ "Historic district" means a building, property, or site, or group
    of buildings, properties, or sites that are either of the following:

        1. _(i)_ Listed in the national register of historic places or formally
        determined eligible for listing by the keeper of the national register,
        the individual who has been delegated the authority by the federal
        agency to list properties and determine their eligibility for the
        national register, in accordance with section VI.D.1.a.i-v of the
        nationwide programmatic agreement codified at 47 C.F.R. part 1, Appendix
        C;

        2. _(ii)_ A registered historic district as defined in section 149.311
        of the Revised Code.

    9. _(9)_ "Operator" means a wireless service provider, cable operator, or
    video service provider that operates a Small Cell Facility and provides
    wireless service, including a wireless service provider, cable operator, or
    a video service provider that provides information services as defined in
    the "Telecommunications Act of 1996," 110 Stat. 59, 47 U.S.C. 153(20), and
    services that are fixed in nature or use unlicensed spectrum.

    10. _(10)_ "Public Way" or "Right-of-Way" means the surface of, and the
    space within, through, on, across, above or below, any public street, public
    road, public highway, public freeway, public lane, public path, public
    alley, public court, public sidewalk, public boulevard, public parkway,
    public drive, public easement, and any other land dedicated or otherwise
    designated for a comparable public use, which is owned or controlled by the
    Village or other public entity or political subdivision.

    11. _(11)_ "Small Cell Facility" means a wireless facility that meets both
    of the following requirements:

        1. _(i)_ Each antenna is located inside an enclosure of not more than
        six (6) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna with exposed
        elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements can fit within an
        enclosure of not more than six (6) cubic feet in volume; and

        2. _(ii)_ All other wireless equipment associated with the facility is
        cumulatively not more than twenty-eight cubic feet in volume. The
        calculation of equipment volume shall not include electric meters,
        concealment elements, telecommunications demarcation boxes, grounding
        equipment, power transfer switches, cut-off switches, and vertical cable
        runs for the connection of power and other services;

        3. _(iii)_ A "Small Wireless Facility" is a type of Small Cell Facility
        (i) in which each antenna is located within an enclosure of not more
        than three (3) cubic feet in volume or, in the case of an antenna with
        exposed elements, the antenna and all of its exposed elements can fit
        within an enclosure of not more than three (3) cubic feet in volume, and
        (ii) where such antenna is associated with a structure (a) 50 feet or
        less in height, including the antenna, or (b) that is not more than 10
        percent taller than adjacent structures, or (c) is not extended by more
        than 10 percent or to a height exceeding 50 feet, whichever is greater,
        and (iii) also otherwise satisfies the definition of "Small Wireless
        Facilities" found in the FCC's Small Cell Order.

    12. _(12)_ "Small Cell Equipment" means a Small Cell Facility and all
    Accessory Equipment.

    13. _(13)_ "Small Cell Use Permit" means the permit granted by the Village
    authorizing an Applicant to Collocate a Small Cell Facility or to construct,
    maintain, modify, operate, or replace a Wireless Support Structure in the
    Right-of-Way.

    14. _(14)_ "Underground Area" means an area in the Right-of-Way where
    existing electric utilities, cable facilities, telecommunications facilities
    and other facilities, other than structures and facilities owned by the
    Village or a transit authority, are located underground.

    15. _(15)_ "Wireless Support Structure" means a pole, such as a monopole,
    either guyed or self-supporting, street light pole, traffic signal pole, a
    fifteen-foot or taller sign pole, or utility pole capable of supporting
    Small Cell Facilities. As used in this Chapter, "Wireless Support Structure"
    excludes the following except in connection with a Small Wireless Facility,
    in which case the following are not excluded:

        1. _(i)_ A utility pole or other facility owned or operated by a
        municipal electric utility; and

        2. _(ii)_ A utility pole or other facility used to supply traction power
        to public transit systems, including railways, trams, streetcars, and
        trolleybuses.

    16. _(16)_ "Village" means the Village of Chagrin Falls.  
    (Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.02   General standards

1. _(a)_ Facilities shall not be installed unless the Facilities are compliant
with these Design Guidelines, Chapter 941 of the Codified Ordinances and any
Application requirements, and all applicable local, state, and federal laws.

2. _(b)_ A Facilities Operator shall not construct, maintain, modify, operate,
or replace any Facilities not clearly depicted in an Application for a Small
Cell Use Permit.

3. _(c)_ All work shall be performed in a professional manner consistent with
the highest standards of workmanship.

4. _(d)_ Facilities shall be maintained in good and safe condition and in a
manner that complies with all applicable federal, state and local requirements.
All facilities shall be regularly painted and free of debris.

5. _(e)_ Facilities shall not be installed in any location that causes any
interference with the Village's public safety radio system, traffic and
emergency signal light system, or other Village safety communications systems or
system components.

6. _(f)_ The Village may propose an alternative location for proposed Facilities
up to one hundred (100) feet from the proposed location or within a distance
that is equivalent to the width of the Public Way, whichever is greater. The
Facilities Operator shall utilize the alternative location unless the Facilities
Operator shows that the alternative location is not technically feasible.

7. _(g)_ Facilities shall not interfere with existing or planned street trees.

8. _(h)_ Signage shall be mounted on all new Facilities providing the Facilities
Operator's name, an emergency contact phone number, an informational contact
number, and all other information required by law. Unless otherwise prohibited
by law, signage shall be discreet in color and shall match the Facilities and
surrounding area and font size used on the sign shall be no smaller than 9 point
font and no larger than 14 point font.

9. _(i)_ Unless otherwise required by law, all manufacturer stickers and decals
shall be removed from Facilities.

10. _(j)_ Facilities shall be camouflaged using existing land forms, vegetation,
and structures to screen the Facilities from view and to blend in with the
surrounding built and natural environment.

11. _(k)_ The Village may require the Facilities Operator to incorporate
additional concealment elements before approving an Application. Concealment
elements may include, but shall not be limited to, fencing, public art,
strategic placement, and placement within existing or replacement street
furniture.

12. _(l)_ Facilities shall not have any flashing lights, sirens or regular noise
other than a cooling fan that may run intermittently.

13. _(m)_ All hardware, including antenna mounting brackets and hardware,
antenna mounting posts, cables, shrouds and other equipment mounted shall be
painted in a color designated by the Chief Administrative Officer, and the color
shall match the Facilities. The Chief Administrative Officer may require the
Facilities Operator to use a different, non-matching color on a case-by- case
basis when the Chief Administrative Officer determines a non-matching color
would better fulfil the purposes of these Design Guidelines.

14. _(n)_ A Facilities Operator shall remove or paint over any graffiti on the
Facilities at Facility Operator's sole expense as soon as practicable, but no
later than thirty (30) days from the date the Facilities Operator receives
notice of the graffiti.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.03   Specifications for collocation

1. _(a)_ Small Cell Equipment shall not interfere with the primary purpose of a
Wireless Support Structure.

2. _(b)_ Small Cell Equipment to be attached to a Wireless Support Structure
shall be attached at least six (6) feet above ground level. If Small Cell
Equipment is projecting toward the street then the Small Cell Equipment shall be
installed no less than sixteen (16) feet above ground level.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.04   Antennas

1. _(a)_ Antennas and Accessory Equipment must be capable of fitting within an
enclosure not larger than six (6) cubic feet in volume.

2. _(b)_ Antennas and Accessory Equipment shall not increase the overall height
of an existing Wireless Support Structure by more than five (5) feet.

3. _(c)_ Antennas mounted on a Wireless Support Structure shall be enclosed
inside the Wireless Support Structure whenever possible and otherwise within a
canister or other shroud. All Accessory Equipment associated with the antenna
shall be concealed and shall not visibly protrude from the shroud or canister.

4. _(d)_ The width of the canister or other shroud encasing the antenna and
Accessory Equipment shall not exceed the width of the topmost portion of the
Wireless Support Structure or 10 inches in diameter, whichever is less.

5. _(e)_ The enclosure or shroud shall be painted to match or compliment the
Wireless Support Structure.

6. _(f)_ Antennas shall be installed in a manner that minimizes the visual
impact to the general public.

7. _(g)_ Antennas shall not impair light or substantially obstruct views from
adjacent window(s).

8. _(h)_ Antennas located on the exterior of a Wireless Support Structure shall
be top-mounted on a Wireless Support Structure. The Chief Administrative Officer
may approve a side-mounted antenna if, in the Chief Administrative Officer's
discretion, the side-mounted antenna would be more appropriate given the built
environment, neighborhood character, overall site appearance or would otherwise
promote the purposes in these Design Guidelines.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.05   Wireless support structure-mounted equipment

1. _(a)_ All Wireless Support Structure-mounted Small Cell Equipment other than
the antenna(s) and electric meter must be concealed within an equipment cabinet.

2. _(b)_ Equipment cabinets shall be mounted flush to the Wireless Support
Structure.

3. _(c)_ Equipment cabinets shall be stacked together on the same side of the
Wireless Support Structure and oriented away from any windows and doorways to
minimize visual impacts thereupon.

4. _(d)_ The equipment cabinets must be non-reflective and painted, wrapped or
otherwise colored to match the Wireless Support Structure.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.06   Ground-mounted small cell equipment

1. _(a)_ The Village shall not approve the proposed location of ground-mounted
Small Cell Equipment unless the Applicant (1) proposes the ground-mounted
equipment in connection with a Collocation, and (2) shows that the equipment
cannot be feasibly placed on the Wireless Support Structure or in an underground
vault.

2. _(b)_ If technically feasible, Small Cell Equipment should be located in a
vault buried underground rather than being ground-mounted. If underground
placement is not technically feasible, ground-mounted Small Cell Equipment shall
be contained in a shroud or cabinet.

3. _(c)_ All ground-mounted Small Cell Equipment shall be installed in a manner
that minimizes the visual and ingress/egress impact to the general public.

4. _(d)_ Ground-mounted Small Cell Equipment shall be placed as far as
practicable from pedestrian sidewalks and shall neither block nor be placed
within the sidewalk in any way. The ground-mounted Small Cell Equipment shall
not be placed adjacent to a sidewalk in a manner that creates a hazard or safety
issue for pedestrians or interferes with the free movement along such sidewalk
in any way.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.07   Cables

1. _(a)_ All cables, conduit and wiring shall be located inside conduit and
inside the Wireless Support Structure or an equipment cabinet.

2. _(b)_ Excess cables and wiring shall not be spooled, coiled or otherwise
stored on the exterior of the Wireless Support Structure unless within an
enclosure. Cables shall not be externally visible.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.08   Electrical meters

1. _(a)_ Facilities Operators shall use flat-rate electric service when
available in order to eliminate the need for a meter.

2. _(b)_ If a meter is required, then the Facilities Operator shall use the
smallest and least intrusive electric meter available. Whenever permitted by the
electric service provider, the electric meter shall be painted to match the
Wireless Support Structure.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.09   Utility lines

1. _(a)_ Service lines shall be underground to avoid additional overhead lines.
The underground cables and wires must transition directly into the Wireless
Support Structure base without any external junction box.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.10   Specifications for replacement of wireless support structures

1. _(a)_ A Facilities Operator shall be required to replace an existing Wireless
Support Structure in the following circumstances:

    1. _(1)_ The Wireless Support Structure upon which the Applicant has
    proposed to Collocate Small Cell Equipment is deemed incapable of bearing
    the added weight of the Small Cell Equipment; or

    2. _(2)_ An existing Wireless Support Structure is located within 100 feet
    of the proposed site of a new Wireless Support Structure but the existing
    Wireless Support Structure is incapable of bearing the additional weight of
    the Small Cell Equipment.

2. _(b)_ Designs for replacement of Wireless Support Structures shall be as
architecturally similar as possible to the existing Wireless Support Structure
to be replaced unless otherwise approved by the Village.

    1. _(1)_ All luminaire mast arms shall be the same length, arch, and style
    as the original luminaire arm, unless otherwise specified by the Village.

    2. _(2)_ The Village may require the Facilities Operator to install a new
    metal Wireless Support Structure rather than a new wood support structure.

3. _(c)_ Except in the R-1, R-2F, ASF, RMF-10, RMF-15, RMU, MR and RLC zoning
districts, the overall height of a replacement Wireless Support Structure,
including proposed Collocated antenna, shall not be more than forty (40) feet in
height above ground level; provided, however, that the height of a Wireless
Support Structure upon which a Small Wireless Facility is to be mounted shall be
as provided in Section 943.01(b)(13). The overall height of a replacement
Wireless Support Structure, including proposed Collocated antenna, shall not be
more than thirty-five (35) feet in height above ground level in R-1, R-2F, ASF,
RMF-10, RMF-15, RMU, MR and RLC zoning district so long as there is no Wireless
Support Structure or utility pole taller than thirty feet located within three
hundred (300) feet of the location of the proposed replacement Wireless Support
Structure.

4. _(d)_ All existing signs, traffic signals, emergency signal detection units,
video detection cameras, video cameras, crosswalk service buttons, crosswalk
signals, and any other pedestrian or traffic devices shall be reinstalled or
replaced with new units by the Facilities Operator at no cost to the Village.

5. _(e)_ The concrete Wireless Support Structure foundation for the original
Wireless Support Structure shall be removed either partially or completely by
the Facilities Operator as instructed by the Village.

    1. _(1)_ If partially removed, the original Wireless Support Structure
    foundation shall be taken back to a level that is twelve (12) inches below
    the existing grade and covered with four (4) inches of one-half (1/2) inch
    to three-quarter (3/4) inch composed of rock material. The remaining eight
    (8) inches shall be native soil.

    2. _(2)_ If the entire original Wireless Support Structure foundation must
    be removed, then all foundation materials (concrete, rebar, metals, bolts,
    etc.) shall be removed. The type of backfill material and compaction
    required is: (a) one-half (1/2) sack slurry for the entire depth in paved
    areas, and (b) one-half (1/2) sack slurry for the entire depth except the
    top twelve (12) inches will be native soil in landscaped areas.  
    (Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.11   Specifications for new wireless support structures

1. _(a)_ New Wireless Support Structures shall be designed and constructed to
accommodate at least two sets of Small Cell Equipment on the same Wireless
Support Structure.

2. _(b)_ New Wireless Support Structures shall maintain a distance of three
hundred (300) feet from existing monopoles, or utility poles.

3. _(c)_ In residential districts, new Wireless Support Structures shall be
located at the shared property line between two residential parcels where the
parcels intersect the Right-of-Way when available.

4. _(d)_ In non-residential districts, new Wireless Support Structures shall be
located between tenant spaces, storefront bays, or adjoining properties at the
shared property lines where the parcels intersect the Right-of-Way when
available.

5. _(e)_ New Wireless Support Structures shall not interfere with any metered
parking space.

6. _(f)_ A new Wireless Support Structure shall not be located in front of a
building entrance or exit.

7. _(g)_ Except in the R-1, R-2F, ASF, RMF-10, RMF-15, RMU, MR and RLC zoning
districts, the overall height of a new Wireless Support Structure, including
proposed Collocated antenna, shall not be more than forty (40) feet in height
above ground level; provided, however, that the height of a Wireless Support
Structure upon which a Small Wireless Facility is to be mounted shall be as
provided in Section 943.01(b)(13). The overall height of a new Wireless Support
Structure, including proposed Collocated antenna, shall not be more than
thirty-five (35) feet in height above ground level in the R-1, R-2F, ASF, RMF-
10, RMF-15, RMU, MR and RLC zoning districts so long as there is no Wireless
Support Structure or utility pole taller than thirty feet located within three-
hundred (300) feet of the location of the proposed new Wireless Support
Structure.

8. _(h)_ The Village may require the Facilities Operator to install a metal
Wireless Support Structure rather than a wood Wireless Support Structure. Unless
otherwise specified by the Village, new wood Wireless Support Structures are
prohibited in the following zoning districts:

    1. _(1)_ The Conservation District (C), Park and Institutional District
    (PI), all Residential Districts, all Business Districts and all Overlay
    Districts, limiting new wood wireless support structures to the Limited
    Industrial (LI) District.  
    (Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.12   Historic district regulations

Except antennas, all Small Cell Equipment to be located in the Right-of-Way in
the Chagrin Falls Westside District, the Chagrin Falls Triangle Park Commercial
District (+ Boundary Increase), the Chagrin Falls Eastside Historic District or
any other Historic District in the Village shall be located in an underground
vault or shall be subject to such reasonable, technologically feasible, and
non-discriminatory design or concealment measures as the Village may specify, as
long as such measures do not have the effect of prohibiting the Facilities
Operator's provision of service. Such measures are not considered part of the
small cell facility for purposes of facility size restrictions in this Chapter
or Chapter 941 of the Codified Ordinances. A waiver submitted pursuant to
Section 941.13(d) will be considered if it is shown to be technologically
infeasible.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.13   Underground area regulations

1. _(a)_ Subject to subsection (b), a Facilities Operator shall locate its
Facilities underground in an Underground Area.

2. _(b)_ A Facilities Operator may replace an existing Wireless Support
Structure or Collocate Small Cell Facilities on an Existing Wireless Support
Structure even if the Wireless Support Structure is located in an Underground
Area.

3. _(c)_ A Facilities Operator shall not install a new Wireless Support
Structure in an Underground Area.

4. _(d)_ An Operator may apply to the Chief Administrative Officer for a waiver
of the underground placement requirement if the Operator is unable to achieve
its service objective under the following circumstances:

    1. _(1)_ From a location in the public Right-of-Way where the prohibition
    does not apply;

    2. _(2)_ From a utility easement the service provider has the right to
    access; and

    3. _(3)_ From other suitable locations or structures made available by the
    Village at reasonable rates, fees and terms.

5. _(e)_ Submission of a waiver pursuant to subsection (d) is subject to the
Facilities Operator's agreement to toll the timeframes set forth in Section
941.08(a) of the Codified Ordinances by fourteen (14) days.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.14   Discretionary waiver

It is within the Chief Administrative Officer's reasonable discretion to waive a
portion or portions of this Chapter, as permitted under state and federal law,
where strict compliance with such requirements, in the Chief Administrative
Officer's judgment, is not necessary or appropriate to protect the Village's
interests and the purposes and intent of this Chapter.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)

## 943.99   Penalties; equitable remedies

1. _(a)_ Any person or entity found guilty of violating, disobeying, omitting,
neglecting or refusing to comply with any of the provisions of this Chapter
shall be fined not less than One Hundred Dollars ($100.00) nor more than Five
Hundred Dollars ($500.00) for each offense. A separate and distinct offense
shall be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation occurs or
continues.

2. _(b)_ Nothing in this Chapter shall be construed as limiting any judicial
remedies that the Village may have, at law or in equity, for enforcement of this
Chapter.  
(Ord. 2019-09. Passed 1-14-19.)
