---
layout: chapter
part_no: 9
title_no: 3
chapter_no: 917
title: "Chapter 917: Sanitary Sewer Charges"
---

## Sections

* [917.01   Definitions](#91701-definitions)
* [917.02   Declaration of necessity](#91702-declaration-of-necessity)
* [917.03   Disposition of funds](#91703-disposition-of-funds)
* [917.04   Sanitary sewer charges and connection fees](#91704-sanitary-sewer-charges-and-connection-fees)
* [917.05   Additional charges for industrial wastes](#91705-additional-charges-for-industrial-wastes)
* [917.06   Collection of charges; leased lots](#91706-collection-of-charges-leased-lots)
* [917.07   Treatment of certain wastes required](#91707-treatment-of-certain-wastes-required)
* [917.99   Penalty](#91799-penalty)

## Cross references

* Weekly deposit of sewer rentals collected - see Ohio R. C. 729.52
* Treatment and tests - see [Streets & Public Services 911.09]({% link _chapters/chapter-911-sewers-generally.md %})

## 917.01   Definitions

For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply:

1. _(a)_ "Sewerage system" or "system" means the sanitary sewerage system of the
Municipality as now existing or as hereafter extended and improved, and shall
include sewers, pumping stations, sewage or waste water treatment works and any
and all other appurtenances common to such systems.  
(Ord. 1957-420. Passed 12-28-57.)

2. _(b)_ "Sanitary sewage" means the waste from water closets, urinals,
lavatories, sinks, bath tubs, showers, household laundries, cellar floor drains,
garage floor drains, bars, soda fountains, cuspidors, refrigerator drips and
drinking fountains, and any other water-borne waste not constituting an
industrial waste.

3. _(c)_ "Acceptable industrial wastes" means liquid organic waste materials not
containing toxic or explosive elements or other substances injurious to sewers
or sewage treatment processes, which result from any commercial, manufacturing
or industrial operation or process.

4. _(d)_ "Nonacceptable industrial wastes" means liquid wastes in which are
incorporated minerals, oil, acid, toxic, metallic or chemical substances,
resulting from any commercial, manufacturing or industrial operation or process.
 
(Ord. 1968-729. Passed 6-18-68.)

## 917.02   Declaration of necessity

It is hereby determined and declared to be necessary for the due protection of
the public health, safety and welfare of the Municipality to establish and
collect the charges herein provided for the use of the system upon all lots,
lands and premises served by or having connection with the system.  
(Ord. 1968-729. Passed 6-18-68.)

## 917.03   Disposition of funds

The funds received from the collection of the rates and charges hereinafter
provided shall be deposited as received with the Director of Finance who shall
keep the same in a separate fund designated "Sewage Service Fund". Subject to
the provisions of this chapter, moneys in such Fund shall be used for the
payment of the cost and expense of operation, maintenance, repair and management
of the sewerage system and any surplus in such Fund over and above the
requirements hereinbefore mentioned may be used for enlargements of and
replacements and improvements to the sewerage system and parts thereof, but
shall not be used for the extension of the sewerage system to serve unsewered
areas or for any other purpose whatsoever.  
(Ord. 1955-346. Passed 8-13-55; Ord. 1968-729. Passed 6-18-68.)

## 917.04   Sanitary sewer charges and connection fees

For the purpose of establishing rates to be charged for the service of the
municipal sanitary sewerage system utility of the Municipality and prescribing
regulations with respect thereto, the following rates and regulations are hereby
adopted:

1. _(a)_ The charge to be made shall be computed on the basis of the quantity of
water consumed upon the lot, parcel of land or premises, or connection as
measured by the municipal water meter in use, or other meter installed or
approved by the Superintendent of Services during the applicable sewer charge
billing period. Such charge shall be billed quarterly as to each such lot,
parcel of land or premises, at a rate equal to the number identified in the
chart below per hundred cubic feet of water, which shall be levied against such
lot, parcel of land or premises, building or connection for the use of water
service of the Municipality, or a minimum sewer charge of six times the stated
rate, below, per one hundred cubic feet of water, whichever is greater:

    | EFFECTIVE RATE CHANGE DATE |    RATE - MIN. CHARGE |
    |---------------------------:|----------------------:|
    |                   04/01/20 | $8.30/100 cf - $49.80 |
    |                   01/01/21 | $8.80/100 cf - $52.80 |
    |                   01/01/22 | $9.33/100 cf - $55.98 |
    |                   01/01/23 | $9.70/100 cf - $58.20 |

    After the year 2023, the rates established for 2023 shall remain in effect
    until modified by Council.

2. _(b)_ Premises located outside the corporate limits of the Municipality which
are served by the system shall be charged at the rate contained in the chart
below, per hundred cubic feet of water, which shall be levied against such lot,
parcel of land or premises, building or connection for the use of the water
service of the Municipality, or a minimum sewer charge of six (6) times the rate
per hundred cubic feet of water, whichever is greater.

    | EFFECTIVE RATE CHANGE DATE |     RATE - MIN. CHARGE |
    |---------------------------:|-----------------------:|
    |                   04/01/20 | $10.38/100 cf - $62.28 |
    |                   01/01/21 | $11.00/100 cf - $66.00 |
    |                   01/01/22 | $11.66/100 cf - $69.96 |
    |                   01/01/23 | $12.13/100 cf - $72.78 |

    After the year 2019, the rates established for 2019 shall remain in effect
    until modified by Council.  
    (Ord. 2020-08. Passed 3-9-20.)

3. _(c)_ Any sewage bill unpaid after January 30, April 30, July 30 or October
30 of any year shall incur a penalty of ten percent (10%) of the total unpaid
balance due.  
(Ord. 1985-7. Passed 2-11-85.)

4. _(d)_ On premises using water supplied from sources other than the water
works system of the Municipality and not measured by a municipal water meter or
other meter acceptable to the Superintendent of Services, the quantity of water
consumed shall be measured by a meter installed and maintained for such purpose
at the expense of the owner or other interested party and acceptable to the
Superintendent of Services; or the owner or other interested party may, at his
option, request the Superintendent of Services to determine the amount of water
consumed on such premises in accordance with accepted engineering practices, and
the quantity of water consumed on such premises shall be the amount so measured
by such meter or so determined by the Superintendent of Services.

5. _(e)_ In the event that any premises discharges industrial waste either
directly or indirectly into the system and the Superintendent of Services finds
that it is impractical to measure such wastes by meter, such wastes shall be
measured in such manner and by such method as the Superintendent of Services
shall find practicable in order to determine the sewer service charge based upon
the rate provided in subsections (a) and (b) hereof.

6. _(f)_ In the event the Superintendent of Services shall be satisfied that a
portion of the water from any source consumed upon any premises does not and
cannot enter the system, then in such case the owner or other interested party
may, at his expense, install and maintain such separate metering devices as
shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Services that
portion of the water so consumed which is discharged into the system, and such
portion shall be the basis for measuring the sewer charge under subsections (a)
and (b) hereof, if applicable. (Ord. 1978-1115. Passed 7-10-78.)

7. _(g)_  Connection or tap charge for initial connection to the sewerage
system: one thousand dollars ($1,000) payable in advance in the Municipality,
and two thousand dollars ($2,000) payable in advance outside the Municipality,
except for those properties situated on Falls River Road as set forth in
Ordinance No. 1971-819, adopted February 21, 1971. The charges for connection to
the sewerage system shall be as follows, except for those properties on Falls
River Road as set forth in Ordinance No. 1971-819:

    For single-family residences, which will be charged for one residential
    single-family unit (RSFU) of 400 gallons per day, the following fee schedule
    shall apply unless and until amended by the Municipality:

    |            Period | Fee (Village) | Fee (Outside) |
    |------------------:|--------------:|--------------:|
    | 1/1/14 - 12/31/18 |         3,900 |         7,800 |
    | 1/1/19 - 12/31/23 |         5,000 |        10,000 |

    For multi-family residential units, the charge shall be based on the
    following RSFU equivalents and applied to the above fee schedule:

    |                        |  RSFU |
    |------------------------|------:|
    | (1) One-bedroom unit   | 0.625 |
    | (2) Two-bedroom unit   | 0.750 |
    | (3) Three-bedroom unit | 0.875 |
    | (4) Four-bedroom unit  | 1.000 |

    The charges for other buildings and structures shall be based on the RSFU
    equivalent of these buildings and structures determined from the sewerage
    flows as presented in the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency Sewerage Flow
    Guide, revised from time to time, and using 400 gallons per day (one RSFU)
    as a base. The amount of the charge shall be determined by applying the RSFU
    equivalent figure to the above fee schedule.  
    (Ord. 2018-80. Passed 12-11-18.)

8. _(h)_ In the event any premises are located outside the corporate limits of
the Municipality and are served by the system but are unmetered for any reason
whatsoever, such land or premises shall be charged at a rate equal to the amount
stated in the chart below, which shall be charged and billed quarterly to each
such lot, parcel of land or premises.

    | EFFECTIVE RATE CHANGE DATE | FLAT RATE |
    |---------------------------:|--------- :|
    |                   04/01/20 |   $332.08 |
    |                   01/01/21 |   $352.00 |
    |                   01/01/22 |   $373.12 |
    |                   01/01/23 |   $388.04 |

    After the year 2023, the rates established for 2023 shall remain in effect
    until modified by Council.  
    (Ord. 2020-08. Passed 3-9-20.)

9. _(i)_ In addition to any existing connection or tap charge paid pursuant to
subsection (g) hereof or any other provision of law, before any connections are
made to the Village waste water treatment facilities from outside the
Municipality, except for those properties situated on Falls River Road as set
forth in Ordinance No. 1971- 819, adopted February 21, 1971, an impact fee of
sixteen thousand dollars ($16,000) per residential unit shall be paid to the
Village.  
(Ord. 2018-80. Passed 12-11-18.)

10. _(j)_ Owners of property always remain responsible to the Municipality to
pay for any sewer charges related to the property, and the owner is not relieved
of the responsibility or obligation for payment of charges assessed to correct
errors made by reason of inadvertence, oversight, or faulty calculation. The
Municipality hereby empowers itself to recover for sewer charges even when the
result of inadvertence, oversight, or faulty calculation or failure to send a
bill to the owner of the property with the correct charges.  
(Ord. 2017-20. Passed 4-24-17.)

## 917.05   Additional charges for industrial wastes

Over and above the rates and charges established by Section 917.04, there may be
established in special instances and upon special agreement between the
Municipality and the owner of any premises served by the system, such additional
charges for industrial wastes of unusual strength of composition which are
accepted by the Municipality for treatment as may be determined to be fair and
equitable. Each such special agreement and the charges established thereby shall
not become effective until ratified by ordinance duly passed by Council.  
(Ord. 1968-729. Passed 6-18-68.)

## 917.06   Collection of charges; leased lots

1. _(a)_ **Collection of Unpaid Charges.** Such sewer charge levied pursuant to
this chapter is hereby made a lien upon the premises charged therewith, and if
the same is not paid within thirty days after it is due and payable, it shall be
certified to the Auditor of Cuyahoga County or to the Auditor of Geauga County,
if outside the Municipality, who shall place the same on the tax duplicate, with
the interest and penalties allowed by law, and be collected as other municipal
taxes are collected. The Municipality shall also have the right, in the event of
nonpayment as aforesaid, to discontinue service to such premises of water
supplied by the Municipality's waterworks system until such unpaid sewer charges
have been duly paid.

2. _(b)_ **Leased Lots.** In the case of leased lots, parcels of land or
premises having a connection with the system, the lessor and lessee shall both
be liable for the payment of the sewer charges herein provided, and the
Municipality may proceed to collect such charges from either the lessor or the
lessee, or it may certify delinquent charges to the Auditor of Cuyahoga County,
or Geauga County, as provided in subsection (a) hereof.  
(Ord. 1968-729. Passed 6-18-68.)

## 917.07   Treatment of certain wastes required

The discharge of nonacceptable industrial wastes, as defined in Section
917.01(d), into the system, whether directly or indirectly, is hereby
prohibited. Where investigation reveals the presence in the system of
nonacceptable industrial wastes emanating from any lot, land, building or
premises, located within or without the corporate limits of the Municipality,
the owner, lessor, renter or occupant of such lot, land, building, or premises
shall be required to treat, neutralize or in other ways prepare the noxious
substance therein to the satisfaction of the Superintendent of Services, in
order to convert the same into acceptable industrial wastes.  
(Ord. l968-729. Passed 6-l8-68.)

## 917.99   Penalty

Whoever violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be fined not more
than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned not more than six months, or
both. Each day such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense.
