---
layout: page
part_no: 13
title_no: 5
chapter_no: 1359
title: "Chapter 1359: Illicit Discharge and Illegal Connection Control"
---

## Sections

* [1359.01   Purpose and scope](#135901-purpose-and-scope)
* [1359.02   Applicability](#135902-applicability)
* [1359.03   Definitions](#135903-definitions)
* [1359.04   Disclaimer of liability](#135904-disclaimer-of-liability)
* [1359.05   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility](#135905-conflicts-severability-nuisances-and-responsibility)
* [1359.06   Responsibility for administration](#135906-responsibility-for-administration)
* [1359.07   Discharge and connection prohibitions](#135907-discharge-and-connection-prohibitions)
* [1359.08   Monitoring of illicit discharges and illegal connections](#135908-monitoring-of-illicit-discharges-and-illegal-connections)
* [1359.09   Enforcement](#135909-enforcement)
* [1359.10   Remedies not exclusive](#135910-remedies-not-exclusive)

## Cross references

* Storm Water Management - see BLDG. Ch. 1357

## 1359.01   Purpose and scope

The purpose of this regulation is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the Village of Chagrin Falls through the
regulation of illicit discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer system
(MS4). This regulation establishes methods for controlling the introduction of
pollutants into the MS4 in order to comply with requirements of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process as required by
the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency (Ohio EPA). The objectives of this
regulation are:

1. _(a)_ To prohibit illicit discharges and illegal connections to the MS4; and
2. _(b)_ To establish legal authority to carry out inspections, monitoring
procedures, and enforcement actions necessary to ensure compliance with this
regulation.  
(Ord. 2011-40. Passed 6-27-11.)

## 1359.02   Applicability

This regulation shall apply to all residential, commercial, industrial, or
institutional facilities responsible for discharges to the MS4 and on any lands
in the Village of Chagrin Falls, except for those discharges generated by the
activities detailed in Section 1359.07 (a)(1) to (a)(3) of this regulation.  
(Ord. 2011-40. Passed 6-27-11.)

## 1359.03   Definitions

The words and terms used in this regulation, unless otherwise expressly
stated, shall have the following meaning:

1. _(a)_ Best Management Practices (BMPs): Means schedules of activities,
prohibitions of practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution
prevention and educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other
management practices to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants to storm
water. BMPs also include treatment practices, operating procedures, and
practices to control site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal,
or drainage from raw materials storage.
2. _(b)_ Community: Means the Village of Chagrin Falls, its designated
representatives, boards, or commissions.
3. _(c)_ Environmental Protection Agency Or United States Environmental
Protection Agency (USEPA): Means the United States Environmental Protection
Agency, including but not limited to the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency
(Ohio EPA), or any duly authorized official of said agency.
4. _(d)_ Floatable material: In general this term means any foreign matter
that may float or remain suspended in the water column, and includes but is not
limited to, plastic, aluminum cans, wood products, bottles, and paper products.
5. _(e)_ Hazardous material: Means any material including any substance,
waste, or combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or
physical, chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly
contribute to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health,
safety, property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored,
transported, disposed of, or otherwise managed.
6. _(f)_ Illicit discharge: As defined at 40 C.F.R. 122.26 (b)(2) means any
discharge to an MS4 that is not composed entirely of storm water, except for
those discharges to an MS4 pursuant to a NPDES permit or noted in Section 1359.07 of this regulation.
7. _(g)_ Illegal connection: Means any drain or conveyance, whether on the
surface or subsurface, that allows an illicit discharge to enter the MS4.
8. _(h)_ Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4): As defined at 40
C.F.R. 122.26 (b)(8), municipal separate storm sewer system means a conveyance
or system of conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal
streets, catch basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels, or storm
drains):
    1. _(1)_ Owned or operated by a State, city, town, borough, county, parish,
district, municipality, township, district, association, or other public body
(created by or pursuant to State law) having jurisdiction over sewage,
industrial wastes, including special districts under State law such as a sewer
district, or similar entity, or an Indian tribe or an authorized Indian tribal
organization, or a designated and approved management agency under section 208
of the Clean Water Act that discharges to waters of the United States;
    2. _(2)_ Designed or used for collecting or conveying storm water;
    3. _(3)_ Which is not a combined sewer; and
    4. _(4)_ Which is not part of a Publicly Owned Treatment Works (POTW) as
defined at 40 C.F.R. 122.2.
9. _(i)_ National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) storm water
discharge permit: Means a permit issued by EPA (or by a State under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general areawide basis.
10. _(j)_ Off-lot discharging household sewage treatment system: Means a system
designed to treat household sewage on-site and discharges treated wastewater
effluent off the property into a storm water or surface water conveyance or
system.
11. _(k)_ Owner/operator: Means any individual, association, organization,
partnership, firm, corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as
either the owner or on the owner’s behalf.
12. _(l)_ Pollutant: Means anything that causes or contributes to pollution.
Pollutants may include, but are not limited to, paints, varnishes, solvents,
oil and other automotive fluids, non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes, yard
wastes, refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter or other discarded or abandoned
objects, floatable materials, pesticides, herbicides, fertilizers, hazardous
materials, wastes, sewage, dissolved and particulate metals, animal wastes,
residues that result from constructing a structure, and noxious or offensive
matter of any kind.
13. _(m)_ Storm water: Means any surface flow, runoff, and drainage
consisting entirely of water from any form of natural precipitation, and
resulting from such precipitation.
14. _(n)_ Wastewater: Means the spent water of a community. From the
standpoint of a source, it may be a combination of the liquid and water-carried
wastes from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and
institutions.  
(Ord. 2011-40. Passed 6-27-11.)

## 1359.04   Disclaimer of liability

Compliance with the provisions of this regulation shall not relieve any
person from responsibility for damage to any person otherwise imposed by law.
The provisions of this regulation are promulgated to promote the health,
safety, and welfare of the public and are not designed for the benefit of any
individual or for the benefit of any particular parcel of property.  
(Ord. 2011-40. Passed 6-27-11.)

## 1359.05   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility

1. _(a)_ Where this regulation is in conflict with other provisions of law or
ordinance, the most restrictive provisions, as determined by the Village of
Chagrin Falls, shall prevail.
2. _(b)_ If any clause, section, or provision of this regulation is declared
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity
of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.
3. _(c)_ This regulation shall not be construed as authorizing any person to
maintain a nuisance on their property, and compliance with the provisions of
this regulation shall not be a defense in any action to abate such a nuisance.
4. _(d)_ Failure of the Village of Chagrin Falls to observe or recognize
hazardous or unsightly conditions or to recommend corrective measures shall not
relieve the site owner from the responsibility for the condition or damage
resulting therefrom, and shall not result in the Village, its officers,
employees, or agents being responsible for any condition or damage resulting
therefrom.  
(Ord. 2011-40. Passed 6-27-11.)

## 1359.06   Responsibility for administration

The Village of Chagrin Falls shall administer, implement, and enforce the
provisions of this regulation. The Village of Chagrin Falls may contract with
the Cuyahoga County Board of Health to conduct inspections and monitoring and
to assist with enforcement actions.  
(Ord. 2011-40. Passed 6-27-11.)

## 1359.07   Discharge and connection prohibitions

1. _(a)_ Prohibition of Illicit Discharges.  No person shall discharge, or
cause to be
discharged, an illicit discharge into the MS4. The commencement, conduct, or
continuance of any illicit discharge to the MS4 is prohibited except as
described below:
    1. _(1)_ Water line flushing; landscape irrigation; diverted stream flows;
rising ground waters; uncontaminated ground water infiltration; uncontaminated
pumped ground water; discharges from potable water sources; foundation drains;
air conditioning condensate; irrigation water; springs; water from crawl space
pumps; footing drains; lawn watering; individual residential car washing; flows
from riparian habitats and wetlands; dechlorinated swimming pool discharges;
street wash water; and discharges or flows from fire fighting activities. These
discharges are exempt until such time as they are determined by the Village of
Chagrin Falls to be significant contributors of pollutants to the MS4.
    2. _(2)_ Discharges specified in writing by the Village of Chagrin Falls as
being necessary to protect public health and safety.
    3. _(3)_ Discharges from off-lot discharging household sewage treatment
systems existing prior to January 1, 2007 and permitted by the Cuyahoga Board
of Health for the purpose of discharging treated sewage effluent in accordance
with Ohio Administrative Code 3701-29, or other applicable Cuyahoga County
Board of Health regulations, until such time as the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency issues an NPDES permitting mechanism for household sewage
treatment systems existing prior to January 1, 2007. These discharges are
exempt unless such discharges are deemed to be creating a public health
nuisance by the Cuyahoga County Board of Health. Discharges from new or
replacement off-lot household sewage treatment systems installed after January
1, 2007 are not exempt from the requirements of this regulation.  
In compliance with the Village’s Storm Water Management Program, discharges
from all off-lot discharging household sewage treatment systems must either be
eliminated or have coverage under an appropriate NPDES permit issued and
approved by the Ohio Environmental Protection Agency. When such permit coverage
is available for systems existing prior to January 1, 2007, discharges from
off-lot discharging household sewage treatment systems existing prior to
January 1, 2007 will no longer be exempt from the requirements of this
regulation.
2. _(b)_ Prohibition of Illegal Connections. The construction, use,
maintenance, or continued existence of illegal connections to the MS4 is
prohibited.
    1. _(1)_ This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illegal
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
    2. _(2)_ A person is considered to be in violation of this regulation if the
person connects a line conveying illicit discharges to the MS4, or allows such
a connection to continue.  
(Ord. 2011-40. Passed 6-27-11.)

## 1359.08   Monitoring of illicit discharges and illegal connections

1. _(a)_ Establishment of an Illicit Discharge and Illegal Connection
Monitoring Program: The Village of Chagrin Falls shall establish a program to
detect and eliminate illicit discharges and illegal connections to the MS4.
This program shall include the mapping of the MS4, including MS4 outfalls and
household sewage treatment systems; the routine inspection of storm water
outfalls to the MS4, and the systematic investigation of potential residential,
commercial, industrial, and institutional facilities for the sources of any dry
weather flows found as the result of these inspections.
2. _(b)_ Inspection of Residential, Commercial, Industrial, or Institutional
Facilities.
    1. _(1)_ The Village of Chagrin Falls shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities subject to this regulation as often as may be necessary to
determine compliance with this regulation.
    2. _(2)_ The Village of Chagrin Falls shall have the right to set up at
facilities subject to this regulation such devices as are necessary to conduct
monitoring and/or sampling of the facility’s storm water discharge, as
determined by the Village.
    3. _(3)_ The Village of Chagrin Falls shall have the right to require the
facility owner/operator to install monitoring equipment as necessary. This
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in safe and
proper operating condition by the facility owner/operator at the owner/
operator’s expense. All devices used to measure storm water flow and quality
shall be calibrated by the Village to ensure their accuracy.
    4. _(4)_ Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and reasonable
access to the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed
by the facility’s owner/operator at the written or oral request of the Village
of Chagrin Falls and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access
shall be borne by the facility owner/operator.
    5. _(5)_ Unreasonable delays in allowing the Village of Chagrin Falls
access to a facility subject to this regulation for the purposes of illicit
discharge inspection is a violation of this regulation.
    6. _(6)_ If the Village of Chagrin Falls is refused access to any part of
the facility from which storm water is discharged, and the Village demonstrates
probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this regulation, or
that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of an inspection and
sampling program designed to verify compliance with this regulation or any
order issued hereunder, or to protect the public health, safety, and welfare,
the Village may seek issuance of a search warrant, civil remedies including but
not limited to injunctive relief, and/or criminal remedies from any court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
    7. _(7)_ Any costs associated with these inspections shall be assessed to
the facility owner/operator.  
(Ord. 2011-40. Passed 6-27-11.)

## 1359.09   Enforcement

1. _(a)_ Notice of Violation. When the Village of Chagrin Falls finds that a
person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this
regulation, the Village may order compliance by written Notice of Violation.
Such notice must specify the violation and shall be hand delivered, and/or sent
by registered mail, to the owner/operator of the facility. Such notice may
require the following actions:
    1. _(1)_ The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
    2. _(2)_ The elimination of illicit discharges or illegal connections;
    3. _(3)_ That violating discharges, practices, or operations cease and
desist;
    4. _(4)_ The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property; or
    5. _(5)_ The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
2. _(b)_ If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property
is required, the Notice of Violation shall set forth a deadline within which
such remediation or restoration must be completed. Said Notice shall further
advise that, should the facility owner/operator fail to remediate or restore
within the established deadline, a legal action for enforcement may be
initiated.
3. _(c)_ Any person receiving a Notice of Violation must meet compliance
standards within the time established in the Notice of Violation.
4. _(d)_ Administrative Hearing: If the violation has not been corrected
pursuant to the requirements set forth in the Notice of Violation, the Village
of Chagrin Falls shall schedule an administrative hearing to determine reasons
for non-compliance and to determine the next enforcement activity. Notice of
the administrative hearing shall be hand delivered and/or sent registered mail
and shall be conducted by the Board of Zoning Appeals.
5. _(e)_ Injunctive Relief: It shall be unlawful for any owner/operator to
violate any provision or fail to comply with any of the requirements of this
regulation pursuant to Ohio R.C. 3709.211. If a owner/operator has violated or
continues to violate the provisions of this regulation, the Village of Chagrin
Falls may petition for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the
owner/operator from activities that would create further violations or
compelling the owner/operator to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.  
(Ord. 2011-40. Passed 6-27-11.)

## 1359.10   Remedies not exclusive

The remedies listed in this regulation are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable federal, state or local law and it is
in the discretion of the Village of Chagrin Falls to seek cumulative remedies.  
(Ord. 2011-40. Passed 6-27-11.)
