---
layout: chapter
part_no: 13
title_no: 5
chapter_no: 1355
title: "Chapter 1355: Erosion and Sediment Control"
---

## Sections

* [1355.01   Purpose and scope](#135501-purpose-and-scope)
* [1355.02   Definitions](#135502-definitions)
* [1355.03   Disclaimer of liability](#135503-disclaimer-of-liability)
* [1355.04   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility](#135504-conflicts-severability-nuisances-and-responsibility)
* [1355.05   Development of stormwater pollution prevention plans](#135505-development-of-stormwater-pollution-prevention-plans)
* [1355.06   Application procedures](#135506-application-procedures)
* [1355.07   Compliance with State and federal regulations](#135507-compliance-with-state-and-federal-regulations)
* [1355.08   SWP3](#135508-swp3)
* [1355.09   Performance standards](#135509-performance-standards)
* [1355.10   Abbreviated SWP3](#135510-abbreviated-swp3)
* [1355.11   Fees](#135511-fees)
* [1355.12   Bond](#135512-bond)
* [1355.13   Enforcement](#135513-enforcement)
* [1355.14   Violations](#135514-violations)
* [1355.15   Appeals](#135515-appeals)
* [1355.99   Violations and penalties](#135599-violations-and-penalties)

## Cross references

* Comprehensive stormwater management - see BLDG. Ch. 1357
* Illicit discharge and illegal connection control - see BLDG. Ch. 1359

## 1355.01   Purpose and scope

1. _(a)_ The purpose of this regulation is to establish technically feasible and
economically reasonable standards to achieve a level of erosion and sediment
control that will minimize damage to property and degradation of water
resources, and will promote and maintain the health and safety of the citizens
of Village of Chagrin Falls:

2. _(b)_ This regulation will:

    1. _(1)_ Allow development while minimizing increases in erosion and
    sedimentation.

    2. _(2)_ Reduce water quality impacts to receiving water resources that may
    be caused by new development or redevelopment activities.

3. _(c)_ This regulation applies to all parcels used or being developed, either
wholly or partially, for new or relocated projects involving highways,
underground cables, or pipelines; subdivisions or larger common plans of
development; industrial, commercial, institutional, or residential projects;
building activities on farms; redevelopment activities; general clearing; and
all other uses that are not specifically exempted in [Section 1355.01(d)][CFCO
1355.01(d)].

4. _(d)_ This regulation does not apply to activities regulated by, and in
compliance with, the Ohio Agricultural Sediment Pollution Abatement Rules.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.02   Definitions

For purpose of this regulation, the following terms shall have the meaning
herein indicated:

1. _(a)_ ABBREVIATED (ABBREVIATED SWP3): The written document that sets forth
the plans and to be used to meet the requirements of this regulation.

2. _(b)_ Acre: A measurement of area equaling 43,560 square feet.

3. _(c)_ Administrator: The person or entity having the responsibility and duty
of administering and ensuring compliance with this regulation.

4. _(d)_ Best Management Practices (BMPs): Also STORMWATER CONTROL MEASURE
(SCM). Schedule of activities, prohibitions of, maintenance procedures, and
other management (both structural and non-structural) to prevent or reduce the
pollution of water resources. BMPs also include treatment requirements,
operating procedures, and to control facility and/or construction site runoff,
spillage or leaks, sludge or waste disposal; or drainage from raw material
storage.

5. _(e)_ Commencement of construction: The initial disturbance of soils
associated with clearing, grubbing, grading, placement of fill, or excavating
activities or other construction activities.

6. _(f)_ Community: Throughout this regulation, this shall refer to the Village
of Chagrin Falls, its designated representatives, boards, or commissions.

7. _(g)_ Concentrated stormwater runoff: Any stormwater runoff that flows
through a drainage pipe, ditch, diversion, or other discrete conveyance channel.

8. _(h)_ Construction entrance: The permitted points of ingress and egress to
development areas regulated under this regulation.

9. _(i)_ Development area: A parcel or contiguous parcels owned by one person or
persons, or operated as one development unit, and used or being developed for
commercial, industrial, residential, institutional, or other construction or
alteration that changes runoff characteristics.

10. _(j)_ Dewatering volume: See current Ohio Rainwater and Land Development
Manual.

11. _(k)_ Discharge: The addition of any pollutant to surface waters of the
state from a point source.

12. _(l)_ Disturbance: Any clearing, grading, excavating, filling, or other
alteration of land surface where natural or man-made cover is destroyed in a
manner that exposes the underlying soils.

13. _(m)_ Disturbed area: An area of land subject to erosion due to the removal
of vegetative cover and/or soil disturbing activities such as grading,
excavating, or filling.

14. _(n)_ DRAINAGE: (1) The area of land contributing surface water to a
specific point. (2) The removal of excess surface water or groundwater from land
by surface of subsurface drains.

15. _(o)_ Drainage watershed: For the purpose of this regulation the total
contributing drainage area to a BMP, i.e., the "watershed" directed to the
practice. This includes offsite contributing drainage.

16. _(p)_ Drainage way: A natural or manmade channel, ditch, or waterway that
conveys surface water in a concentrated manner by gravity.

17. _(q)_ Erosion: The process by which the land surface is worn away by the
action of wind, water, ice, gravity, or any combination of those forces.

18. _(r)_ Erosion and sediment control: The control of soil, both mineral and
organic, to minimize the removal of soil from the land surface and to prevent
its transport from a disturbed area by means of wind, water, ice, gravity, or
any combination of those forces.

19. _(s)_ Final stabilization: All soil disturbing activities at the site have
been completed and a uniform perennial vegetative cover with a density of at
least 80% coverage for the area has been established or equivalent stabilization
measures, such as the use of mulches or geotextiles, have been employed. In
addition, all temporary erosion and sediment control are removed and disposed of
and all trapped sediment is permanently stabilized to prevent further erosion.
Final stabilization also requires the installation of permanent
(post-construction) stormwater control measures (SCMs).

20. _(t)_ Grading: The excavating, filling, or stockpiling of earth material, or
any combination thereof, including the land in its excavated or filled
condition.

21. _(u)_ Grubbing: Removing or grinding of roots, stumps and other unwanted
material below existing grade.

22. _(v)_ Impervious: That which does not allow infiltration.

23. _(w)_ Landscape architect: A Professional Landscape Architect registered in
the State of Ohio.

24. _(x)_ Larger common plan of development or sale: A contiguous area where
multiple separate and distinct construction activities may be taking place at
different times on different schedules under one plan.

25. _(y)_ Maximum Extent Practicable (MEP): The technology-based discharge
standard for Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems to reduce pollutants in
storm water discharges that was established by the Clean Water Act §402(p). A
discussion of MEP as it applies to small MS4s is found in 40 CFR 122.34.

26. _(z)_ Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4): A conveyance or system of
conveyances (including roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, catch
basins, curbs, gutters, ditches, man-made channels, or storm drains) that are:

    1. _(a)_ Owned or operated by the federal government, state, municipality,
    township, county, district, or other public body (created by or pursuant to
    state or federal law) including a special district under state law such as a
    sewer district, flood control district or drainage districts, or similar
    entity, or a designated and approved management agency under Section 208 of
    the Federal Water Pollution Control Act that discharges into surface waters
    of the state; and

    2. _(b)_ Designed or used for collecting or conveying solely stormwater,

    3. _(c)_ Which is not a combined sewer, and

    4. _(d)_ Which is not a part of a publicly owned treatment works.

27. _(aa)_ National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES): The national
program for issuing, modifying, revoking and reissuing, termination, monitoring
and enforcing permits and enforcing pretreatment requirements, under sections
307, 402, 318, 405 under the Clean Water Act.

28. _(bb)_ Operator: Any party associated with a construction project that meets
either of the following two criteria:

    1. _(a)_ The party has operational control over construction plans and
    specifications, including the ability to make modifications to those plans
    and specifications; or

    2. _(b)_ The party has day-to-day operational control of those activities at
    a project which are necessary to ensure compliance with A (SWP3) for the
    site or other permit conditions (e.g. they are authorized to direct workers
    at a site to carry out activities required by the SWP3 or comply with other
    permit conditions.

29. _(cc)_ Owner or operator: The owner or operator of any "facility or
activity" subject to regulation under the NPDES program.

30. _(dd)_ Subdivisions, major and minor: See Ohio Administrative Code 711.001
for definition.

31. _(ee)_ Parcel: Means a tract of land occupied or intended to be occupied by
a use, building or group of buildings and their accessory uses and buildings as
a unit, together with such open spaces and driveways as are provided and
required. A parcel may contain more than one contiguous lot individually
identified by a 'Permanent Parcel Number' assigned by the Cuyahoga County Fiscal
Officer.

32. _(ff)_ Percent imperviousness: The impervious area created divided by the
total area of the project site.

33. _(gg)_ Permanent stabilization: Establishment of permanent vegetation,
decorative landscape mulching, matting, sod, rip rap, and landscaping techniques
to provide permanent erosion control on areas where construction operations are
complete or where no further disturbance is expected for at least one year.

34. _(hh)_ Person: Any individual, corporation, firm, trust, commission, board,
public or private partnership, joint venture, agency, unincorporated
association, municipal corporation, county or state agency, the federal
government, other legal entity, or an agent thereof.

35. _(ii)_ Phasing: Clearing a parcel of land in distinct sections, with the
stabilization of each section before the clearing of the next.

36. _(jj)_ Point source: Any discernible, confined and discrete conveyance,
including but not limited to, any pipe, ditch, channel, tunnel, conduit, well,
discrete fissure, container, rolling stock, concentrated animal feeding
operation, landfill leachate collection system, vessel or the floating craft
from which pollutants are or may be discharged. This term does not include
return flows from irrigated agriculture or agricultural stormwater runoff.

37. _(kk)_ Pre-construction meeting: A meeting between the Village of Chagrin
Falls and all principle parties, prior to the start of any construction, at a
site that requires a Stormwater Pollution Prevention Plan.

38. _(ll)_ Pre-winter stabilization meeting: A meeting between the Village of
Chagrin Falls and all principal parties, prior to October 1, in order to plan
winter erosion and sediment controls for a site that requires a Stormwater
Pollution Prevention Plan.

39. _(mm)_ Professional engineer: A Professional Engineer registered in the
State of Ohio.

40. _(nn)_ Qualified inspection personnel: A person knowledgeable in the
principles and practice of erosion and sediment controls, who possess the skills
to assess all conditions at the construction site that could impact stormwater
quality and to assess the effectiveness of any sediment and erosion control
measure selected to control the quality of stormwater discharges from the
construction activity.

41. _(oo)_ Rainwater and land development: Ohio's standards for stormwater
management, land development, and urban stream protection. The most current
edition of these standards shall be used with this regulation.

42. _(pp)_ Riparian area: The transition area between flowing water and
terrestrial (land) ecosystems composed of trees, shrubs and surrounding
vegetation which serve to stabilize erodible soil, improve both surface and
ground water quality, increase stream shading and enhance wildlife habitat.

43. _(qq)_ Runoff: The portion of rainfall, melted snow, or irrigation water
that flows across the ground surface and is eventually conveyed to water
resources or wetlands.

44. _(rr)_ Runoff coefficient: The fraction of rainfall that will appear at the
conveyance as runoff.

45. _(ss)_ Sediment: The soils or other surface materials that are transported
or deposited by the action of wind, water, ice, gravity, or any combination of
those forces, as a product of erosion.

46. _(tt)_ Sedimentation: The deposition or settling of sediment.

47. _(uu)_ Sediment settling pond: A sediment trap, sediment basin or permanent
basin that has been temporarily modified for sediment control, as described in
the latest edition of Rainwater and Land Development.

48. _(vv)_ Sediment storage volume: See current edition of Rainwater and Land
Development.

49. _(ww)_ Setback: A designated transition area around water resources that is
left in a natural, usually vegetated, state to protect the water resources from
runoff pollution. Soil disturbing activities in this area are restricted by this
regulation.

50. _(xx)_ Soil disturbing activity: Clearing, grading, excavating, filling,
grubbing or stump removal that occurs during clearing or timber activities, or
other alteration of the earth's surface where natural or human made ground cover
is destroyed and that may result in, or contribute to, erosion and sediment
pollution.

51. _(yy)_ Soil & water conservation district: An entity organized under
[Chapter 1515][ORC 1515] of the Ohio Revised Code referring to either
the Soil and Water Conservation District Board or its designated employee(s).
Hereafter referred to as Cuyahoga SWCD.

52. _(zz)_ Stabilization: The use of BMPs, such as seeding and mulching, that
reduce or prevent soil erosion by water, wind, ice, gravity, or a combination of
those forces.

53. _(aaa)_ Steep slopes: Slopes that are 12 percent or greater in grade.

54. _(bbb)_ (SWP3): The written document that sets forth the plans and to be
used to meet the requirements of this regulation.

55. _(ccc)_ Stormwater: Stormwater runoff, snow melt and surface runoff and
drainage.

56. _(ddd)_ Surface outlet: A dewatering device that only draws water from the
surface of the water.

57. _(eee)_ Surface water of the state: Also Water Resource or Water Body. Any
stream, lake, reservoir, pond, marsh, wetland, or other waterway situated wholly
or partly within the boundaries of the state, except those private waters which
do not combine or affect a junction with surface water. Waters defined as
sewerage systems, treatment works or disposal systems in [Section 6111.01][ORC
6111.01] of the Ohio Revised Code are not included.

58. _(fff)_ Temporary stabilization: The establishment of temporary vegetation,
mulching, geotextiles, sod, preservation of existing vegetation, and other
techniques capable of quickly establishing cover over disturbed areas to provide
erosion control between construction operations.

59. _(ggg)_ Topsoil: The upper layer of the soil that is usually darker in color
and richer in organic matter and nutrients than subsoil.

60. _(hhh)_ Total maximum daily load: The sum of the existing and/or projected
point source, nonpoint source, and background loads for a pollutant to a
specified watershed, water resource or wetland, or water resource or wetland
segment. A TMDL sets and allocates the maximum amount of a pollutant that may be
introduced into the water and still ensure attainment and maintenance of water
quality standard.

61. _(iii)_ Unstable soils: A portion of land that is identified by the Village
of Chagrin Falls Engineer as prone to slipping, sloughing, or landslides, or is
identified by the U.S. Department of Agriculture Natural Resource Conservation
Service methodology as having a low soil strength.

62. _(jjj)_ Water Quality Volume (WQv): The volume of stormwater runoff which
must be captured and treated prior to discharge from the developed site after
construction is complete. WQv is based on the expected runoff generated by the
mean storm precipitation volume from post-construction site conditions at which
rapidly diminishing returns in the number of runoff events captured begins to
occur.

63. _(kkk)_ Water resource also Surface water of the state: Any stream, lake,
reservoir, pond, marsh, wetland, or waterway situated wholly or partly within
the boundaries of the state, except those private waters which do not combine or
affect a junction with surface water. Waters defined as sewerage systems,
treatment works or disposal systems in [Section 6111.01][ORC 6111.01] of
the Ohio Revised Code are not included.

64. _(lll)_ Watershed: The total drainage area contributing runoff to a single
point.

65. _(mmm)_ Wetland: Those areas, that are inundated or saturated by surface or
ground water at a frequency and duration sufficient to support, and that under
normal circumstances do support, a prevalence of vegetation typically adapted
for life in saturated soil conditions, including swamps, marshes, bogs, and
similar areas (40 CFR 232, as amended).\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.03   Disclaimer of liability

Compliance with the provisions of this regulation shall not relieve any person
from responsibility for damage to any person otherwise imposed by law. The
provisions of this regulation are promulgated to promote the health, safety, and
welfare of the public and are not designed for the benefit of any individual or
for the benefit of any particular parcel of property.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.04   Conflicts, severability, nuisances and responsibility

1. _(a)_ Where this regulation is in conflict with other provisions of law or
ordinance, the most restrictive provisions shall prevail.

2. _(b)_ If any clause, section, or provision of this regulation is declared
invalid or unconstitutional by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity
of the remainder shall not be affected thereby.

3. _(c)_ This regulation shall not be construed as authorizing any person to
maintain a private or public nuisance on their property, and compliance with the
provisions of this regulation shall not be a defense in any action to abate such
a nuisance.

4. _(d)_ Failure of the Village of Chagrin Falls to observe or recognize
hazardous or unsightly conditions or to recommend corrective measures shall not
relieve the site owner from the responsibility for the condition or damage
resulting therefrom, and shall not result in the Village of Chagrin Falls, its
officers, employees, or agents being responsible for any condition or damage
resulting therefrom.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.05   Development of stormwater pollution prevention plans

1. _(a)_ This regulation requires that a (SWP3) be developed and implemented for
all commercial and industrial site development and all development projects
disturbing one (1) acre or, or less than one (1) acre if part of a larger common
plan of development or sale disturbing one (1) or more acres of total land. The
Village Engineer has the discretion to require a SWP3 for projects on sites of
any size.

2. _(b)_ An Abbreviated SWP3 shall be submitted in the following cases:

    1. _(1)_ New single-family residential construction. If such activities
    disturb one (1) acre or more, or are part of a larger common plan of
    development or sale disturbing one (1) acre or more, a full SWP3 and
    compliance with the Ohio EPA Construction General Permit are required.

    2. _(2)_ Additions or accessory buildings for single-family residential
    construction. If such activities disturb one (1) acre or more, or are part
    of a larger common plan of development or sale disturbing one (1) acre or
    more, a full SWP3 and compliance with the Ohio EPA Construction Site General
    Permit are required.

    3. _(3)_ All non-residential construction on parcels of less than one (1)
    acre.

    4. _(4)_ General clearing activities not related to construction. If such
    activities disturb one (1) acre or more, or are part of a larger common plan
    of development or sale disturbing one (1) acre or more, compliance with the
    Ohio EPA Construction Site General Permit and a full SWP3 are required.

3. _(c)_ Activities disturbing 1/10 (one tenth) or less of an acre are not
required to submit a SWP3 or an Abbreviated SWP3, unless required by the Village
of Chagrin Falls Engineer. These activities must comply with all other
provisions of this regulation.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.06   Application procedures

1. _(a)_ Soil Disturbing Activities Submitting a (SWP3): The applicant shall
submit two (2) sets of the SWP3 and the applicable fees to the Village of
Chagrin Falls and two (2) sets of the SWP3 and the applicable fees to the
Cuyahoga SWCD as follows:

    1. _(1)_ For subdivisions: After the approval of the preliminary plans and
    with submittal of the improvement plans.

    2. _(2)_ For other construction projects: Before issuance of a zoning permit
    by the Zoning Inspector.

    3. _(3)_ For general clearing projects: Prior to issuance of a zoning permit
    by the Zoning Inspector.

2. _(b)_ Soil Disturbing Activities Submitting an Abbreviated (SWP3): The
applicant shall submit two (2) sets of the Abbreviated SWP3 and the applicable
fees to the Village of Chagrin Falls and two (2) sets of the Abbreviated SWP3
and the applicable fees to the Cuyahoga SWCD as follows:

    1. _(1)_ For single-family home construction: Before issuance of a zoning
    permit by the Zoning Inspector.

    2. _(2)_ For other construction projects: Before issuance of a zoning permit
    by the Zoning Inspector.

    3. _(3)_ For general clearing projects: Prior to issuance of a zoning permit
    by the Zoning Inspector.

3. _(c)_ The Village Engineer and the Cuyahoga SWCD shall review the plans
submitted under [Section 1355.06(a)][CFCO 1355.06(a)] or [(b)][CFCO 1355.06(b)]
for conformance with this regulation and approve, or return for revisions with
comments and recommendations for revisions. A plan rejected because of
deficiencies shall receive a narrative report stating specific problems and the
procedures for filing a revised plan.

4. _(d)_ Soil disturbing activities shall not begin and zoning permits shall not
be issued without an approved SWP3 or Abbreviated SWP3 and installation of
erosion and sediment controls.

5. _(e)_ SWP3 for individual sublots in a subdivision will not be approved
unless the larger common plan of development or sale containing the sublot is in
compliance with this regulation.

6. _(f)_ The developer, engineer and contractor, and other principal parties,
shall meet with the Village Engineer for a Pre-Construction Meeting no less than
seven (7) days prior to soil-disturbing activity at the site to ensure that
erosion and sediment control devices are properly installed, limits of
disturbance and buffer areas are properly delineated and construction personnel
are aware of such devices and areas. Pre-Construction Meetings may be waived at
the discretion of the Village Engineer.

7. _(g)_ Approvals issued in accordance with this regulation shall remain valid
for one (1) year from the date of approval.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.07   Compliance with state and federal regulations

Approvals issued in accordance with this regulation do not relieve the applicant
of responsibility for obtaining all other necessary permits and/or approvals
from the Ohio EPA, the US Army Corps of Engineers, and other federal, state,
and/or county agencies. If requirements vary, the most restrictive requirement
shall prevail. These permits may include, but are not limited to, those listed
below. All submittals required to show proof of compliance with these state and
federal regulations shall be submitted with SWP3s or Abbreviated SWP3s.

1. _(a)_ Ohio EPA NPDES Permits authorizing stormwater discharges associated
with construction activity or the most current version thereof: Proof of
compliance with these requirements shall be the applicant's Notice of Intent
(NOI) number from Ohio EPA, a copy of the Ohio EPA Director's Authorization
Letter for the NPDES Permit, or a letter from the site owner certifying and
explaining why the NPDES Permit is not applicable.

2. _(b)_ Section 401 of the Clean Water Act: Proof of compliance shall be a copy
of the Ohio EPA Water Quality Certification application tracking number, public
notice, project approval, or a letter from the site owner certifying that a
qualified professional has surveyed the site and determined that Section 401 of
the Clean Water Act is not applicable. Wetlands, and other waters of the United
States, shall be delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of
Engineers at the time an application is made under this regulation.

3. _(c)_ Ohio EPA Isolated Wetland Permit: Proof of compliance shall be a copy
of Ohio EPA's Isolated Wetland Permit application tracking number, public
notice, project approval, or a letter from the site owner certifying that a
qualified professional has surveyed the site and determined that Ohio EPA's
Isolated Wetlands Permit is not applicable. Isolated wetlands shall be
delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers at the time
an application is made under this regulation.

4. _(d)_ Section 404 of the Clean Water Act: Proof of compliance shall be a copy
of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers Individual Permit application, public
notice, or project approval, if an Individual Permit is required for the
development project. If an Individual Permit is not required, the site owner
shall submit proof of compliance with the U.S. Army Corps of Engineer's
Nationwide Permit Program. This shall include one of the following:

    1. _(A)_ A letter from the site owner certifying that a qualified
    professional has evaluated the site and determined that Section 404 of the
    Clean Water Act is not applicable, and provide documentation.

    2. _(B)_ A site plan showing that any proposed fill of waters of the United
    States conforms to the general and special conditions specified in the
    applicable Nationwide Permit. Wetlands, and other waters of the United
    States, shall be delineated by protocols accepted by the U.S. Army Corps of
    Engineers at the time an application is made under this regulation.

5. _(e)_ Ohio Dam Safety Law: Proof of compliance shall be a copy of the ODNR
Division of Water permit application tracking number, a copy of the project
approval letter from the ODNR Division of Water, or a letter from the site owner
certifying and explaining why the Ohio Dam Safety Law is not applicable.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.08   SWP3

1. _(a)_ In order to control sediment pollution of water resources, the
applicant shall submit a SWP3 in accordance with the requirements of this
regulation.

2. _(b)_ Best Management Practices (BMPs) and Stormwater Control Measures (SCMs)
adequate to prevent pollution of public waters by soil sediment from accelerated
storm water runoff from development areas.

3. _(c)_ The SWP3 shall be certified by a professional engineer, a registered
surveyor, certified professional erosion and sediment control specialist, or a
registered landscape architect.

4. _(d)_ The SWP3 shall be amended whenever there is a change in design,
construction, operation or maintenance, which has a significant effect on the
potential for the discharge of pollutants to surface waters of the state or if
the SWP3 proves to be ineffective in achieving the general objectives of
controlling pollutants in stormwater discharges associated with construction
activity.

5. _(e)_ The SWP3 shall incorporate measures as recommended by the most current
online edition of Rainwater and Land Development as published by the Ohio
Environmental Protection Agency and shall include the following information:

    1. _(1)_ A cover page or title identifying the name and location of the
    site, the name and contact information of all construction site operators,
    the name and contact information for the person responsible for authorizing
    and amending the SWP3, preparation date, and the estimated start and
    completion dates for construction.

    2. _(2)_ A copy of the permit requirements (attaching a copy of the current
    Ohio EPA NPDES Construction General Permit is acceptable).

    3. _(3)_ Site description:  The SWP3 shall provide:

        1. _(A)_ A description of the nature and type of the construction
        activity (e.g. residential, shopping mall, highway, etc.).

        2. _(B)_ Total area of the site and the area of the site that is
        expected to be disturbed (i.e., grubbing, clearing, excavation, filling
        or grading, including off-site borrow areas).

        3. _(C)_ An estimate of the impervious area and percent of
        imperviousness created by the land disturbance.

        4. _(D)_ A calculation of the run-off coefficients for both the pre-
        construction and post-construction site conditions.

        5. _(E)_ Existing data describing the soil and, if available, the
        quality of any known pollutant discharge from the site such as that
        which may result from previous contamination caused by prior land uses.

        6. _(F)_ A description of prior land uses at the site.

        7. _(G)_ An implementation schedule which describes the sequence of
        major soil-disturbing operations (i.e., grubbing, excavating, grading,
        utilities and infrastructure installation) and the implementation of
        erosion and sediment controls to be employed during each operation of
        the sequence.

        8. _(H)_ The location and name of the immediate receiving stream or
        surface water(s) and the first subsequent receiving water(s) and the
        aerial extent and description of wetlands or other special aquatic sites
        at or near the site which will be disturbed or which will receive
        discharges from undisturbed areas of the project. For discharges to a
        municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4), the point of discharge to
        the MS4 and the location where the MS4 ultimately discharges to a water
        resource shall be indicated.

        9. _(I)_ List TMDLs applicable for the site and demonstrate that
        appropriate BMPs or stormwater control measures (SCMs) have been
        selected to address these TMDLs. [A TMDL identifier table for Northeast
        Ohio communities is available at
        [http://www.neohiostormwater.com/](https://www.neohiostormwater.com/)]

        10. _(J)_ For subdivided developments a detail drawing of a typical
        individual lot showing standard individual lot erosion and sediment
        control. This does not remove the responsibility to designate specific
        erosion and sediment control in the SWP3 for areas such as steep slopes,
        stream banks, drainage ways, and riparian zones.

        11. _(K)_ Location and description of any stormwater discharges
        associated with dedicated asphalt and dedicated concrete plants
        associated with the development area and the best management to address
        pollutants in these stormwater discharges.

        12. _(L)_ A log documenting grading and stabilization activities as well
        as amendments to the SWP3, which occur after construction activities
        commence.

        13. _(M)_ Each temporary and permanent stormwater practice shall be
        designated with an individual identification number.

        14. _(N)_ Site map showing:

            1. _(i)_ Limits of soil-disturbing activity of the site, including
            off site spoil and borrow areas.

            2. _(ii)_ Soils types should be depicted for all areas of the site,
            including locations of unstable or highly erodible soils.

            3. _(iii)_ Existing and proposed one-foot (1′) contours. This must
            include a delineation of drainage watersheds expected during and
            after major grading activities as well as the size of each drainage
            watershed in acres.

            4. _(iv)_ Surface water locations including springs, wetlands,
            streams, lakes, water wells, etc., on or within 200 feet of the
            site, including the boundaries of wetlands or stream channels and
            first subsequent named receiving water(s) the applicant intends to
            fill or relocate for which the applicant is seeking approval from
            the Army Corps of Engineers and/or Ohio EPA.

            5. _(v)_ Existing and planned locations of buildings, roads, parking
            facilities, and utilities.

            6. _(vi)_ The location of all erosion and sediment control,
            including the location of areas likely to require temporary
            stabilization during the course of site development.

            7. _(vii)_ Sediment and stormwater management basins including their
            sediment settling volume and the maximum expected disturbed area
            that will be directed to the sediment pond during construction. The
            plan should include a summary of the following:

                1. _(i)_ The required sediment storage and dewatering volumes

                2. _(ii)_ The provided sediment storage and dewatering volumes

                3. _(iii)_ The weir length or skimmer size, as applicable

                4. _(iv)_ The weir length or skimmer size provided

            8. _(viii)_ Data sheets for all sediment traps, sediment basins, and
            SCMs that identify contributing drainage area, disturbed area, water
            quality volume, sedimentation volume, dewatering volume, practice
            surface area, facility discharge and dewatering time, outlet type
            and dimensions, and any other relevant parameters for each practice.

            9. _(ix)_ A separate plan and profile view of each individual
            sediment settling pond and its outlet structure. Detail drawings of
            the outlet structure shall indicate the following elevations:

                1. _(a)_ Pond bottom

                2. _(b)_ Elevation required to store the required sediment
                storage volume

                3. _(c)_ For sediment basins, the elevation at which the skimmer
                is attached

                4. _(d)_ For sediment traps, the top and bottom of the stone
                outlet section

                5. _(e)_ Elevation required to store the dewatering volume,
                exclusive of the sediment storage volume

                6. _(f)_ Elevation of the top of embankment

                7. _(g)_ Crest of the emergency spillway

            10. _(x)_ Where used as a sediment-settling pond during
            construction, the plan shall include a detail drawing of the
            temporary outlet configuration of the permanent storm water basin
            with the following information specified:

                1. _(a)_ Storage volume provided below the elevation at which
                the skimmer or other surface dewatering device is attached

                2. _(b)_ Elevation at which the skimmer or other surface
                dewatering device is attached

                3. _(c)_ Elevation at which the full dewatering zone is stored
                above the skimmer invert

                4. _(d)_ Any temporary modification to permanent outlet orifices
                or weirs required to ensure no discharge below the skimmer
                invert and only the skimmer controls the discharge up to the top
                of the dewatering volume.

                5. _(e)_ Calculations of the sediment storage volume, dewatering
                volume and skimmer drawdown time shall also be provided

            11. _(xi)_ The location of permanent SCMs to be used to control
            pollutants in stormwater after construction operations have been
            completed.

            12. _(xii)_ Areas designated for the storage or disposal of solid,
            sanitary and toxic wastes, including dumpster areas, areas
            designated for cement truck washout, and vehicle fueling.

            13. _(xiii)_ Methods to minimize the exposure of building materials,
            building products, construction wastes, trash, landscape materials,
            fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides, detergents, and sanitary waste
            to precipitation, stormwater runoff, and snow melt.

            14. _(xiv)_ Measures to prevent and respond to chemical spills and
            leaks. Applicants may also reference the existence of other plans
            (i.e., Spill Prevention Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) plans,
            spill control programs, Safety Response Plans, etc.) provided that
            such plan addresses this requirement and a copy of such plan is
            maintained on site.

            15. _(xv)_ Methods to minimize the discharge of pollutants from
            equipment and vehicle washing, wheel wash water, and other wash
            waters. No detergents may be used to wash vehicles. Wash waters
            shall be treated in a sediment basin or alternative control that
            provides equivalent treatment prior to discharge.

            16. _(xvi)_ The location of designated stoned construction entrances
            where the vehicles will ingress and egress the construction site.

            17. _(xvii)_ The location of any in-stream activities including
            stream crossings.

    4. _(4)_ A soils engineering report. The Village Engineer may require the
    SWP3 to include a Soils Engineering Report based upon his/her determination
    that the conditions of the soils are unknown or unclear to the extent that
    additional information is required to protect against erosion or other
    hazards. This report shall be based on adequate and necessary test borings,
    and shall contain all the information listed below. Recommendations included
    in the report and approved by the Village Engineer shall be incorporated in
    the grading plans and/or other specifications for site development.

        1. _(A)_ Data regarding the nature, distribution, strength, and
        erodibility of existing soils.

        2. _(B)_ If applicable, data regarding the nature, distribution,
        strength, and erodibility of the soil to be placed on the site.

        3. _(C)_ Conclusions and recommendations for grading procedures.

        4. _(D)_ Conclusions and recommended designs for interim soil
        stabilization devices and measures, and for permanent soil stabilization
        after construction is completed.

        5. _(E)_ Design criteria for corrective measures when necessary.

        6. _(F)_ Opinions and recommendations covering the stability of the
        site.\
        (Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.09   Performance standards

The SWP3 must contain a description of the controls appropriate for each
construction operation and the applicant must implement such controls. The SWP3
must clearly describe for each major construction activity the appropriate
control measures; the general sequence during the construction process under
which the measures will be implemented; and the contractor responsible for
implementation (e.g., contractor A will clear land and install perimeter
controls and contractor B will maintain perimeter controls until final
stabilization).

The approved SWP3, and the sediment and erosion controls, and non-sediment
pollution controls contained therein, shall be implemented upon the commencement
of construction. Perimeter controls must be installed two working days prior to
commencement of construction. The approved plan must be implemented until the
site reaches final stabilization. All properties adjacent to the site of
soil-disturbing activity shall be protected from soil erosion and sediment
run-off and damage, including, but not limited to, private properties, natural
and artificial waterways, wetlands, storm sewers and public lands.

It is the owner's responsibility to maintain current records of contractor (s)
responsible for implementation the SWP3 and providing that information to the
Village Engineer. The SWP3 shall identify all subcontractors engaged in
activities that could impact stormwater runoff. The SWP3 shall contain
signatures from all of the identified subcontractors indicating that they have
been informed and understand their roles and responsibilities in complying with
the SWP3. The applicant shall review the SWP3 with the primary contractor prior
to commencement of construction activities and keep a SWP3 training log to
demonstrate that this review had occurred.

Erosion and sediment controls shall be designed, installed and maintained
effectively to minimize the discharge of pollutants during the course of earth
disturbing activities. The controls shall include the following minimum
components:

1. _(a)_ **Non-structural Preservation Measures:** The SWP3 must make use of
measures that preserve the existing natural condition to the maximum extent
practicable. Such may include preserving riparian areas, preserving existing
vegetation and vegetative buffer strips, phasing of construction operations in
order to minimize the amount of disturbed land at any one time, minimizing
disturbance of steep slopes, designation of tree preservation areas or other
protective clearing or grubbing . Soil compaction shall be minimized and, unless
infeasible, topsoil shall be preserved. Provide and maintain a 50-foot buffer of
undisturbed natural vegetation around surface waters of the state, or riparian
or wetland setbacks, if applicable, whichever is greater, unless maintaining
this buffer is infeasible, e.g. stream crossings for roads or utilities, or for
channel and floodplain rehabilitation and restoration. Direct stormwater to
vegetated areas to increase sediment removal and maximize stormwater
infiltration. [Communities with riparian and/or wetland setbacks include the
following language: If the riparian setback is greater than 50 feet, no
disturbance of natural vegetation shall occur within the riparian or wetland
setback unless a variance of the riparian or wetland setback regulation has been
granted.]

2. _(b)_ **Erosion Control:** The SWP3 must make use of erosion controls that
are capable of providing cover over disturbed soils. The amount of soil exposed
during construction activity shall be minimized. A description of control
designed to restabilize disturbed areas after grading or construction shall be
included in the SWP3. The SWP3 must provide specifications for stabilization of
all disturbed areas of the site and provide guidance as to which method of
stabilization will be employed for any time of the year. Such may include:
temporary seeding, permanent seeding, mulching, matting, sod stabilization,
vegetative buffer strips, phasing of construction operations, the use of
construction entrances, and the use of alternative ground cover. Erosion control
must meet the following requirements:

    1. _(1)_ **Stabilization.** Disturbed areas must be stabilized as specified
    in Tables 1 and 2 below.

        **Table 1: Permanent Stabilization**

        | Area requiring permanent stabilization                                      | Time frame to apply erosion controls                    |
        |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
        | Any area that will lie dormant for one year or more.                        | Within 7 days of the most recent disturbance.           |
        | Any area within 50 feet of a surface water of the state and at final grade. | Within 2 days of reaching final grade.                  |
        | Any other areas at final grade.                                             | Within 7 days of reaching final grade within that area. |

        **Table 2: Temporary Stabilization**

        | Area requiring temporary stabilization                                                                                                                                                                    | Time frame to apply erosion controls                                                                                                                            |
        |-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
        | Any disturbed area within 50 feet of a surface water of the state and not at final grade.                                                                                                                 | Within 2 days of the most recent disturbance if that area will remain idle for more than 14 days. Within 7 days of the most recent disturbance within the area. |
        | For all construction activities, any disturbed area, including soil stockpiles that will be dormant for more than 14 days but less than one year, and not within 50 feet of a surface water of the state. | For residential subdivisions, disturbed areas must be stabilized at least 7 days prior to transfer of ownership or operational responsibility.                  |
        | Disturbed areas that will be idle over winter.                                                                                                                                                            | Prior to November 1 or the onset of winter weather, whichever occurs first.                                                                                     |

        Note: Where vegetative stabilization techniques may cause structural
        instability or are otherwise unobtainable, alternative stabilization
        techniques must be employed.

    2. _(2)_ **Permanent stabilization of conveyance channels.** Applicants
    shall undertake special measures to stabilize channels and outfalls and
    prevent erosive flows. Measures may include seeding, dormant seeding,
    mulching, erosion control matting, sodding, riprap, natural channel design
    with bioengineering techniques, or rock check dams, all as defined in the
    most recent edition of Rainwater and Land Development or the Field Office
    Technical Guide available at
    [www.nrcs.usda.gov/technical/efotg/](https://www.nrcs.usda.gov/technical/efotg/).

3. _(c)_ **Runoff Control.** The SWP3 shall incorporate measures that control the
volume and velocity of stormwater runoff within the site to prevent erosion.
Peak flow rates and total stormwater volume shall be controlled to minimize
erosion and outlets, downstream channel and streambank erosion. Such may include
rock check dams, pipe slope drains, diversions to direct flow away from exposed
soils and protective grading. These shall divert runoff away from disturbed
areas and steep slopes where practicable. Velocity dissipation devices shall be
placed at discharge locations and along the length of any outfall channel to
provide non-erosive flow velocity from the structure to a water course so that
the natural physical and biological characteristics and functions are maintained
and protected.

4. _(d)_ **Sediment Control Practices.** The SWP3 shall include a description of,
and detailed drawings for, all structural practices that shall store runoff,
allowing sediments to settle and/or divert flows away from exposed soils or
otherwise limit runoff from exposed areas to minimize sediment discharges from
the site. Structural practices shall be used to control erosion and trap
sediment from a site remaining disturbed for more than fourteen (14) days. Such
practices may include, among others: sediment settling ponds, silt fences, storm
drain inlet protection, and earth diversion dikes or channels which direct
runoff to a sediment settling pond. The design, installation and maintenance of
erosion and sediment controls shall address factors such as the amount,
frequency, intensity and duration of precipitation, the nature of resulting
stormwater runoff, and soil characteristics, including the range of soil
particle sizes expected to be present on the site.

5. _(e)_ All sediment control must be capable of ponding runoff in order to be
considered functional. Earth diversion dikes or channels alone are not
considered a sediment unless used in conjunction with a sediment settling pond.
Sediment control must meet the following requirements:

    1. _(1)_ **Timing.** Sediment control structures shall be functional throughout
    the course of earth disturbing activity. Sediment basins and perimeter
    sediment barriers shall be implemented prior to grading and within seven (7)
    days from the start of grubbing. They shall continue to function until the
    up slope development area is restabilized. As construction progresses and
    the topography is altered, appropriate controls must be constructed or
    existing controls altered to address the changing drainage patterns.

    2. _(2)_ **Sediment settling ponds.** A sediment settling pond, or
    equivalent best management practice upon approval from the Village of
    Chagrin Falls Engineer and/or the Cuyahoga SWCD, is required for any one of
    the following conditions:

        1. _(A)_ Concentrated stormwater runoff.

        2. _(B)_ Runoff from drainage areas which exceeds the design capacity of
        silt fence (see Table 3) inlet protection, or other sediment barriers;

        3. _(C)_ Runoff from common drainage locations with 10 or more acres of
        disturbed land.

            Sediment settling ponds shall be provided in the form of a sediment
            trap or sediment basin as defined in the latest edition of Rainwater
            and Land Development. The maximum allowable contributing drainage
            area to a sediment trap shall be limited to less than 5 acres.
            Contributing drainage areas of 5 acres or more shall be treated with
            a sediment basin. An equivalent best management practice may be
            utilized upon approval from the Village of Chagrin Falls.

            The sediment-settling pond shall provide both a sediment storage
            zone and a dewatering zone. The volume of the dewatering zone shall
            be at least 1,800 cubic feet of storage per acre of total
            contributing drainage area. The dewatering structure of sediment
            basins shall be designed to have a minimum 48- hour drain time, and,
            unless infeasible, be designed to always withdraw runoff from the
            surface of the pond throughout the storm cycle. As such, a skimmer
            discharge device consistent with Rainwater and Land Development
            shall be provided to dewater sediment basins. Sediment traps shall
            also provide both a sediment storage zone and dewatering zone, but
            the outlet structure shall be constructed consistent with the
            specifications contained in the latest edition of Rainwater and Land
            Development.

            When post-construction detention/water quality ponds are to be used
            as temporary sediment trapping BMPs, a skimmer discharge device
            consistent with Rainwater and Land Development shall be utilized
            during construction phase and until the site is deemed permanently
            stabilized by the Village of Chagrin Falls.

            The skimmer shall be designed per the equivalent requirements of
            sediment basins and the operator must ensure that the outlet
            structure of the pond provides an equivalent or better sediment
            storage zone and dewatering zone. As such, temporarily while the
            site is under construction, there shall be no discharge of runoff
            below the elevation required for the sediment storage zone and the
            discharge of stormwater within the dewatering zone shall only occur
            through the skimmer.

            The volume of the sediment storage zone shall be calculated by one
            of the following methods:

            * **Method 1:** The volume of the sediment storage zone shall be
            1000ft³ per disturbed acre within the watershed of the basin.

            * **Method 2:** The volume of the sediment storage zone shall be the
            volume necessary to store the sediment as calculated with Revised
            Universal Soil Loss Equation (RUSLE) or other generally accepted
            erosion prediction model.

            When determining the total contributing drainage area, off-site
            areas and areas which remain undisturbed by construction activity
            must be included unless runoff from these areas is diverted away
            from the sediment settling pond and is not co-mingled with
            sediment-laden runoff. The depth of the dewatering zone must be less
            than or equal to five (5) feet. The configuration between the inlets
            and the outlet of the sediment-settling pond must provide at least
            two units of length for each one unit of width (>2:1 length-to-width
            ratio); however, a length to width ratio of > 4:1 is recommended.
            Sediment must be removed from the sediment-settling pond when the
            design capacity of the sediment storage zone has been completely
            filled by sediment accumulations has been reduced by 40 percent.
            This limit is typically reached when sediment occupies one-half of
            the basin depth. When designing sediment settling ponds, the
            applicant must consider public safety, especially as it relates to
            children, as a design factor for the sediment basin and alternative
            sediment controls must be used where site limitations would preclude
            a safe design. The use of a combination of sediment and erosion
            control measures in order to achieve maximum pollutant removal is
            encouraged.

    3. _(3)_ **Silt fence and diversions.** Sheet flow runoff from denuded areas
    shall be intercepted by silt fence or diversions to protect adjacent
    properties and water resources from sediment transported via sheet flow.
    Where intended to provide sediment control, silt fence shall be placed on a
    level contour and shall be capable of temporarily ponding runoff. The
    relationship between the maximum drainage area to silt fence for a
    particular slope range is shown in Table 3 below. Placing silt fence in a
    parallel series does not extend the size of the permissible drainage area.

        **Table 3: Maximum Drainage Area to Silt Fence Based on Slope**

        | Maximum Drainage Area (acres) to 100 linear feet of silt fence | Range of slope for a drainage area (%) |
        |---------------------------------------------------------------:|---------------------------------------:|
        |                                                            0.5 |                                    <2% |
        |                                                           0.25 |                         > 2% but < 20% |
        |                                                          0.125 |                        > 20% but < 50% |

    4. _(4)_ Alternative perimeter controls for sheet flow discharges may be
    considered by the Village of Chagrin Falls, but their use shall not exceed
    the limitations indicated in Table 3 above. Detail drawings and plan notes
    shall specify the diameter of filter socks, compost berms and other such
    alternative perimeter controls if used instead of silt fence.

    5. _(5)_ Stormwater diversion shall be used to keep runoff away from
    disturbed areas and steep slopes. Such devices, which include swales, dikes
    or berms, may receive storm water runoff from areas up to 10 acres.

    6. _(6)_ **Inlet protection.** Erosion and sediment control, such as boxed
    inlet protection, shall be installed to minimize sediment-laden water
    entering active storm drain systems. All inlets receiving runoff from
    drainage areas of one or more acres will require a sediment settling pond.
    Straw or hay bales and filter socks around catch basins are not acceptable
    forms of inlet protection.

    7. _(7)_ **Off-site tracking of sediment and dust control.** Best Management
    Practices must be implemented to ensure sediment is not tracked off-site and
    that dust is controlled. These best management must include, but are not
    limited to, the following:

        1. _(A)_ Construction entrances shall be built and shall serve as the
        only permitted points of ingress and egress to the development area.
        These entrances shall be built of a stabilized pad of aggregate stone or
        recycled concrete or cement sized greater than 2″ in diameter, placed
        over a geotextile fabric, and constructed in conformance with
        specifications in the most recent edition of Rainwater and Land
        Development.

        2. _(B)_ Streets and catch basins adjacent to construction entrances
        shall be kept free of sediment tracked off site. Streets directly
        adjacent to construction entrances and receiving traffic from the
        development area shall be cleaned daily to remove sediment tracked
        off-site. If applicable, the catch basins on these streets nearest to
        the construction entrances shall also be cleaned weekly and protected
        from sediment-laden runoff, if feasible without posing a public safety
        hazard.

            Based on site conditions, Village of Chagrin Falls Engineer and/or
            the Cuyahoga SWCD may require additional best management to control
            off site tracking and dust. These additional BMPs may include:

        3. _(C)_ Fencing shall be installed around the perimeter of the
        development area to ensure that all vehicle traffic adheres to
        designated construction entrances.

        4. _(D)_ Designated vehicle and wheel-washing areas. Wash water from
        these areas must be directed to a designated sediment trap, the
        sediment- settling pond, or to a sump pump for dewatering in conformance
        with [Section 1355.09(g)] of this regulation. No surfactants or
        detergents may be used to wash vehicles.

        5. _(E)_ Applicants shall take all necessary measures to comply with
        applicable regulations regarding fugitive dust emissions, including
        obtaining necessary permits for such emissions. The Village of Chagrin
        Falls Engineer and/or the Cuyahoga SWCD may require dust controls
        including the use of water trucks to wet disturbed areas, tarping
        stockpiles, temporary stabilization of disturbed areas, and regulation
        of the speed of vehicles on the site.

    3. _(3)_ **Surface Waters of the State protection.** Construction vehicles
    shall avoid water resources. A 50 foot undisturbed natural buffer shall be
    provided around surface waters of the state unless infeasible. If it is
    infeasible to provide and maintain an undisturbed 50-foot natural buffer,
    the SWP3 shall comply with the stabilization requirements in [Section
    1355.09(b)(1)][CFCO 1355.09(b)(1)] for areas within 50 feet of a surface
    water or riparian or wetland setbacks if applicable, whichever is greater;
    and minimize soil compaction and, unless infeasible, preserve topsoil. If
    the applicant is permitted to disturb areas within 50 feet of a water
    resource, the following conditions shall be addressed in the SWP3:

        1. _(A)_ All BMPs and stream crossings shall be designed as specified in
        the most recent edition of Rainwater and Land Development.

        2. _(B)_ Structural practices shall be designated and implemented on
        site to protect water resources from the impacts of sediment runoff.

        3. _(C)_ No structural sediment controls (e.g., the installation of silt
        fence or a sediment settling pond in-stream) shall be used in water
        resources or wetlands.

        4. _(D)_ Where stream crossings for roads or utilities are necessary and
        permitted, the project shall be designed such that the number of stream
        crossings and the width of the disturbance are minimized.

        5. _(E)_ Temporary stream crossings shall be constructed if water
        resources or wetlands will be crossed by construction vehicles during
        construction.

        6. _(F)_ Construction of bridges, culverts, or sediment control
        structures shall not place soil, debris, or other particulate material
        into or close to the water resources or wetlands in such a manner that
        it may slough, slip, or erode.

        7. _(G)_ Concentrated stormwater runoff from BMPs to natural wetlands
        shall be converted to diffuse flow through the use of level spreaders or
        other such appropriate measure before the runoff enters the wetlands.
        The flow should be released such that no erosion occurs downslope. Level
        spreaders may need to be placed in series to ensure non-erosive
        velocities.

        8. _(H)_ Protected areas or critical areas, including wetlands and
        riparian areas shall be physically marked in the field prior to earth
        disturbing activities.

        9. _(I)_ Concentrated stormwater runoff from BMPs to natural wetlands
        shall be converted to diffuse flow through the use of level spreaders or
        other such appropriate measures before the runoff enters the wetlands.
        The flow should be released such that no erosion occurs downslope. Level
        spreaders may need to be placed in series to ensure non-erosive
        velocities.

    4. _(4)_ **Modifying controls.** If periodic inspections or other
    information indicates a control has been used inappropriately or
    incorrectly, the applicant shall replace or modify the control for site
    conditions. Non-sediment pollutant controls: No solid or liquid waste,
    including building materials, shall be discharged in stormwater runoff. The
    applicant must implement site best management to prevent toxic materials,
    hazardous materials, or other debris from entering water resources, wetlands
    or the MS4. These shall include but are not limited to the following:

        1. _(A)_ Waste Materials: A covered dumpster shall be made available for
        the proper disposal of garbage, plaster, drywall, grout, gypsum, and
        other waste materials.

        2. _(B)_ Concrete Truck Wash Out: The washing of concrete material into
        a street, catch basin, other public facility, natural resource or water
        of the state is prohibited. A designated area for concrete washout shall
        be made available.

        3. _(C)_ Disposal of Other Wastewaters: The discharge of washout and
        cleanout of stucco, paint, form release oils, curing compounds, and
        other construction materials to a street, catch basin, other public
        facility, natural resource or waters of the state is prohibited. The
        discharge of soaps or solvents used in vehicle and equipment washing is
        also prohibited. If generated, these wastewaters must be collected and
        disposed of properly.

        4. _(D)_ Fuel/Liquid Tank Storage: All fuel/liquid tanks and drums shall
        be stored in a marked storage area. A dike shall be constructed around
        this storage area with a minimum capacity equal to 110% of the volume of
        the largest containers in the storage area and/or a spill kit shall be
        provided to clean up spills. The ESC Plan shall contain spill prevention
        and response procedures and these procedures shall be discussed at the
        pre-construction meeting.

        5. _(E)_ Toxic or Hazardous Waste Disposal: Any toxic or hazardous waste
        shall be disposed of properly. The discharge of fuels, oils, and other
        pollutants used in vehicle and equipment operation and maintenance is
        prohibited.

        6. _(F)_ Contaminated Soils Disposal and Runoff: Discovery of previously
        unknown contaminated soils onsite shall be self-reported to Ohio EPA and
        local authorities. Contaminated soils from redevelopment sites shall be
        disposed of properly. Runoff from contaminated soils shall not be
        discharged from the site. Proper permits shall be obtained for
        development projects on solid waste landfill sites or redevelopment
        sites. Where construction activities are to occur on sites with
        contamination from previous activities, operators shall be aware that
        concentrations of materials that meet other criteria (i.e. not
        considered a Hazardous Waste, meeting Voluntary Action Program (VAP
        standards)) may still result in stormwater discharges in excess of Ohio
        Water Quality Standards. Such discharges are not authorized by this
        code. Control measures which may be utilized to meet this requirement
        include, but are not limited to:

            1. _(i)_ Use berms, trenches, pits or tanks to collect contaminated
            runoff and prevent discharge.

            2. _(ii)_ Pump runoff from contaminated soils to the sanitary sewer
            with the prior approval of the sanitary sewer system operator, or
            pump into a container for transport to an appropriate treatment or
            disposal facility; and

            3. _(iii)_ Cover areas of contamination with tarps, daily cover or
            other such methods to prevent storm water from coming into contact
            with contaminated materials.

                The SWP3 must include methods to minimize the exposure of
                building materials, building products, construction wastes,
                trash, landscape materials, fertilizers, pesticides, herbicides,
                detergents, and sanitary waste to precipitation, stormwater
                runoff, and snow melt. The SWP3 shall include measures to
                prevent and respond to chemical spills and leaks. Applicants may
                also reference the existence of other plans (i.e., Spill
                Prevention Control and Countermeasure (SPCC) plans, spill
                control programs, Safety Response Plans, etc.) provided that
                such plan addresses this requirement and a copy of such plan is
                maintained on site.

6. _(f)_ **Compliance with Other Requirements.** The SWP3 shall be consistent
with applicable State and/or local waste disposal, sanitary sewer, or septic
system regulations, including provisions prohibiting waste disposal by open
burning, and shall provide for the proper disposal of contaminated soils located
within the development area.

7. _(g)_ **Trench and Ground Water Control.** There shall be no sediment-laden
or turbid discharges to water resources or wetlands resulting from dewatering
activities. If trench or ground water contains sediment, it must pass through a
sediment-settling pond or other equally effective sediment control device, prior
to being discharged from the construction site. Alternatively, sediment may be
removed by settling in place or by dewatering into a sump pit, filter bag or
comparable practice. Ground water dewatering which does not contain sediment or
other pollutants is not required to be treated prior to discharge. However, care
must be taken when discharging ground water to ensure that it does not become
pollutant-laden by traversing over disturbed soils or other pollutant sources.

8. _(h)_ **Internal Inspections.** All controls on the site shall be inspected
at least once every seven calendar days and within 24 hours after any storm
event greater than one-half inch of rain per 24 hour period. The inspection
frequency may be reduced to at least once every month if the entire site is
temporarily stabilized or runoff is unlikely due to weather conditions (e.g.,
site is covered with snow, ice, or the ground is frozen). A waiver of inspection
requirements is available until one month before thawing conditions are expected
to result in a discharge if prior written approval has been attained from the
Village of Chagrin Falls Engineer and/or the Cuyahoga SWCD and all of the
following conditions are met:

    1. _(A)_ The project is located in an area where frozen conditions are
    anticipated to continue for extended periods of time (i.e. more than one (1)
    month).

    2. _(B)_ Land disturbance activities have been suspended, and temporary
    stabilization is achieved.

    3. _(C)_ The beginning date and ending dates of the waiver period are
    documented in the SWP3.

        For sites where final sediment controls will not be completed by October 1,
        a Pre-Winter Stabilization Meeting may be required at the discretion of the
        Village Engineer, with the landowner and the developer, engineer and
        contractor of the project and the Village Engineer prior to October 1, in
        order to plan and approve winter erosion and sediment controls as defined in
        the most current online edition of Rainwater and Land Development.

        The applicant shall assign qualified inspection personnel to conduct
        these inspections to ensure that the controls are functional and to
        evaluate whether the SWP3 is adequate, or whether additional control
        measures are required. Qualified inspection personnel are individuals
        with knowledge and experience in the installation and maintenance of
        sediment and erosion controls. Certified inspection reports shall be
        submitted to the Village Engineer within seven (7) working days from the
        inspection and retained at the development site. These inspections shall
        meet the following requirements:

    1. _(1)_ Disturbed areas and areas used for storage of materials that are
    exposed to precipitation shall be inspected for evidence of or the potential
    for, pollutants entering the drainage system.

    2. _(2)_ Erosion and sediment control measures identified in the SWP3 shall
    be observed to ensure that they are operating correctly. The applicant shall
    utilize an inspection form provided by the Village of Chagrin Falls or an
    alternate form acceptable to the Village of Chagrin Falls Engineer. The
    inspection form shall include:

        1. _(A)_ The inspection date.

        2. _(B)_ Names, titles and qualifications of personnel making the
        inspection.

        3. _(C)_ Weather information for the period since the last inspection,
        including a best estimate of the beginning of each storm event, duration
        of each storm event and approximate amount of rainfall for each storm
        event in inches, and whether any discharges occurred.

        4. _(D)_ Weather information and a description of any discharges
        occurring at the time of inspection.

        5. _(E)_ Locations of:

            1. _(1)_ Discharges of sediment or other pollutants from site.

            2. _(2)_ BMPs that need to be maintained.

            3. _(3)_ BMPs that failed to operate as designed or proved
            inadequate for a particular location.

            4. _(4)_ Where additional BMPs are needed that did not exist at the
            time of inspection.

        6. _(F)_ Corrective action required including any necessary changes to
        the SWP3 and implementation dates.

    3. _(3)_ Discharge locations shall be inspected to determine whether erosion
    and sediment control measures are effective in preventing significant
    impacts to the receiving water resource or wetlands.

    4. _(4)_ Locations where vehicles enter or exit the site shall be inspected
    for evidence of off-site vehicle tracking.

    5. _(5)_ The applicant shall maintain for three (3) years following final
    stabilization the results of these inspections, the names and qualifications
    of personnel making the inspections, the dates of inspections, major
    observations relating to the implementation of the SWP3, a certification as
    to whether the facility is in compliance with the SWP3, and information on
    any incidents of non-compliance determined by these inspections.

9. _(i)_ **Maintenance.** The SWP3 shall be designed to minimize maintenance
requirements. All BMPs shall be maintained and repaired as needed to ensure
continued performance of their intended function until final stabilization. All
sediment control must be maintained in a functional condition until all up slope
areas they control reach final stabilization. The applicant shall provide a
description of maintenance procedures needed to ensure the continued performance
of control and shall ensure a responsible party and adequate funding to conduct
this maintenance, all as determined by the Village of Chagrin Falls Engineer.

    When inspections reveal the need for repair, replacement, or installation of
    erosion and sediment control BMPs, the following procedures shall be
    followed:

    1. _(1)_ When BMPs require repair or maintenance. If an internal inspection
    reveals that a BMP is in need of repair or maintenance, with the exception
    of a sediment-settling pond, it must be repaired or maintained within three
    (3) days of the inspection. Sediment settling ponds must be repaired or
    maintained within ten (10) days of the inspection.

    2. _(2)_ When BMPs fail to provide their intended function. If an internal
    inspection reveals that a BMP fails to perform its intended function as
    detailed in the SWP3 and that another, more appropriate is required, the
    SWP3 must be amended and the new BMP must be installed within ten (10) days
    of notice from the Village Engineer.

    3. _(3)_ When BMPs depicted on the SWP3 are not installed. If an internal
    inspection reveals that a BMP has not been implemented in accordance with
    the schedule, the must be implemented within ten (10) days from the date of
    the inspection. If the internal inspection reveals that the planned is not
    needed, the record must contain a statement of explanation as to why the is
    not needed.

10. _(j)_ **Final Stablization.** Final stabilization shall be determined by the
Village of Chagrin Falls Engineer. Once a definable area has achieved final
stabilization, the applicant may note this on the SWP3 and no further inspection
requirement applies to that portion of the site. Final stabilization also
requires the installation of permanent (post-construction) stormwater control
measures (SCMs).\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.10   Abbreviated SWP3

1. _(a)_ In order to control sediment pollution of water resources, the
applicant shall submit an Abbreviated SWP3 in accordance with the requirements
of this regulation.

2. _(b)_ The Abbreviated SWP3 shall be certified by a professional engineer, a
registered surveyor, certified professional erosion and sediment control
specialist, or a registered landscape architect.

3. _(c)_ The Abbreviated SWP3 shall include a minimum of the following BMPs.
Village of Chagrin Falls may require other BMPs as site conditions warrant.

    1. _(1)_ **Construction Entrances:** Construction entrances shall be built
    and shall serve as the only permitted points of ingress and egress to the
    development area. These entrances shall be built of a stabilized pad of
    aggregate stone or recycled concrete or cement sized greater than 2″ in
    diameter, placed over a geotextile fabric, and constructed in conformance
    with specifications in the most recent edition of Rainwater and Land
    Development.

    2. _(2)_ **Concrete Truck Wash Out:** The washing of concrete material into
    a street, catch basin, or other public facility or natural resource is
    prohibited. A designated area for concrete washout shall be indicated on the
    plan. Use for other waste and wastewater is prohibited.

    3. _(3)_ **Street Sweeping:** Streets directly adjacent to construction
    entrances and receiving traffic from the development area, shall be cleaned
    daily to remove sediment tracked off-site. If applicable, the catch basins
    on these streets nearest to the construction entrances shall be cleaned
    weekly.

    4. _(4)_ **Stabilization.** The development area shall be stabilized as detailed
    in Table 4.

        **Table 4: Stabilization**

        | Area requiring stabilization                                                                                                                                                           | Time frame to apply erosion controls                                                             |
        |----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
        | Any disturbed area within 50 feet of a surface water of the state and not at final grade.                                                                                              | Within 2 days of the most recent disturbance if that area will remain idle for more than 14 days |
        | For all construction activities, any disturbed area, including soil stockpiles, that will be dormant for more than 14 days but less than one year, and not within 50 feet of a stream. | Within 7 days of the most recent disturbance within the area                                     |
        | Disturbed areas that will be idle over winter                                                                                                                                          | Prior to November 1                                                                              |

        Note: Where vegetative stabilization techniques may cause structural
        instability or are otherwise unobtainable, alternative stabilization
        techniques must be employed. These techniques may include mulching or
        erosion matting.

    5. _(5)_ **Inlet Protection.** Erosion and sediment control , such as boxed
    inlet protection, shall be installed to minimize sediment-laden water
    entering active storm drain systems, including rear yard inlets. Straw, hay
    bales, and filter socks are not acceptable forms of inlet protection.

    6. _(6)_ **Silt Fence and Other Perimeter Controls.** Silt fence and other
    perimeter controls approved by the Village of Chagrin Falls shall be used to
    protect adjacent properties and water resources from sediment discharged via
    sheet (diffused) flow. Silt fence shall be placed along level contours and
    the permissible drainage area is limited to those indicated in Table 3 in
    [Section 1355.09][CFCO 1355.09] of these regulations.

    7. _(7)_ **Internal Inspection and Maintenance.** All controls on the
    development area shall be inspected at least once every seven calendar days
    and within 24 hours after any storm event greater than one-half inch of rain
    per 24 hour period. Maintenance shall occur as detailed below:

        1. _(A)_ When BMPs require repair or maintenance. If the internal
        inspection reveals that a BMP is in need of repair or maintenance, with
        the exception of a sediment-settling pond, it must be repaired or
        maintained within three (3) days of the inspection. Sediment settling
        ponds must be repaired or maintained within ten (10) days of the
        inspection.

        2. _(B)_ When BMPs fail to provide their intended function. If the
        internal inspection reveals that a BMP fails to perform its intended
        function and that another, more appropriate is required, the Abbreviated
        SWP3 must be amended and the new must be installed within ten (10) days
        of the inspection.

        3. _(C)_ When BMPs depicted on the Abbreviated SWP3 are not installed.
        If the internal inspection reveals that a BMP has not been implemented
        in accordance with the schedule, the must be implemented within ten (10)
        days from the date of the inspection. If the inspection reveals that the
        planned control practice is not needed, the record must contain a
        statement of explanation as to why the control practice is not needed.

    8. _(8)_ Final Stabilization: Final stabilization shall be determined by the
    Village of Chagrin Falls Engineer.\
    (Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.11   Fees

The SWP3 and Abbreviated SWP3 review, filing, and inspection fee is part of a
complete submittal and is required to be submitted to the Village of Chagrin
Falls and the Cuyahoga SWCD before the review process begins. Please consult
with the Village Engineer for current fee schedule.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.12   Bond

1. _(a)_ If a SWP3 or SWP3 is required by this regulation, soil disturbing
activities shall not be permitted until a cash bond has been deposited with the
Village of Chagrin Falls Finance Department. The amount shall be One Thousand
Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) minimum for the first acre, or less, and an
additional One Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00) paid for each
subsequent acre or fraction thereof. The bond will be used for the Village of
Chagrin Falls to perform the obligations otherwise to be performed by the owner
of the development area as stated in this regulation and to allow all work to be
performed as needed in the event that the applicant fails to comply with the
provisions of this regulation. The cash bond shall be returned, less Village of
Chagrin Falls administrative fees as detailed in Chapter 1355 of the Village of
Chagrin Falls Codified Ordinances, after all work required by this regulation
has been completed and final stabilization has been reached, all as determined
by the Village Engineer.

2. _(b)_ No project subject to this regulation shall commence without a SWP3 or
Abbreviated SWP3, if a SWP3 is not required, approved by the Village of Chagrin
Falls Engineer.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.13   Enforcement

1. _(a)_ If the Village of Chagrin Falls or its duly authorized representative
determines that a violation of the rules adopted under this code exist, the
Village of Chagrin Falls or representative may issue an immediate stop work
order if the violator failed to obtain any federal, state, or local permit
necessary for sediment and erosion control, earth movement, clearing, or cut and
fill activity.

2. _(b)_ All development areas may be subject to external inspections by Village
Engineer and/or the Cuyahoga SWCD to ensure compliance with the approved SWP3 or
Abbreviated SWP3.

3. _(c)_ After each external inspection, the Village Engineer and/or the
Cuyahoga SWCD shall prepare and distribute a status report to the applicant.

4. _(d)_ If an external inspection determines that operations are being
conducted in violation of the approved SWP3 or Abbreviated SWP3 the Village
Engineer and/or the Cuyahoga SWCD may take action as detailed in [Section
1355.14][CFCO 1355.14] of this regulation.

5. _(e)_ Failure to maintain and repair erosion and sediment controls per the
approved SWP3 or swp3 plan may result in the following escalation:

    1. _(1)_ **First Violation:** The Village Engineer will issue a Notice of
    Deficiency to the owner or operator. All controls are to be repaired or
    maintained per the SWP3 plan within three (3) days of the notification. If
    controls have not been corrected after this time, the Village Engineer may
    issue a Stop Work Order for all activities until corrections have been made.

    2. _(2)_ **Second Violation:** The Village Engineer may issue a formal
    Notice of Violation which includes a $250 administrative fee against the
    SWP3 Bond or site plan deposit. All controls are to be repaired or
    maintained per the approved SWP3 plan within three (3) days of the Notice of
    Violation. If controls have not been corrected after this time, the Village
    Engineer may issue a Stop Work Order for all activities until corrections
    have been made.

    3. _(3)_ **Third and subsequent violations:** The Village Engineer may issue
    a Stop Work Order for all construction activities and charge a $250
    administrative fee against the SWP3 bond or site plan deposit. The Stop Work
    Order will be lifted once all controls are in compliance with the approved
    SWP3 plan.

6. _(f)_ The Village Engineer shall have the authority to make immediate on-
site adjustments to the ESC Plan in order to achieve compliance with these
Rules.

7. _(g)_ A final inspection will be made to determine if the criteria of this
code has been satisfied and a report will be presented to the Village of Chagrin
Falls on the site's compliance status.

8. _(h)_ The Village Engineer will monitor soil-disturbing activities for non-
farm residential, commercial, industrial, or other non-farm purposes on land of
less than one contiguous acre to ensure compliance required by these Rules.

9. _(i)_ The Village Engineer shall notify the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers when
a violation on a development project covered by an Individual or Nationwide
Permit is identified. The Village Engineer shall notify the Ohio Environmental
Protection Agency when a violation on a development project covered by a Section
401 Water Quality Certification and/or Isolated Wetland Permit is identified.

10. _(j)_ The Village of Chagrin Falls shall not issue building permits for
projects regulated under the Building Code, Part Thirteen of the Codified
Ordinances or the Planning and Zoning Code, Part Eleven, that have not received
approval for an SWP3 for said project(s).\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.14   Violations

1. _(a)_ No person shall violate or cause or knowingly permit to be violated any
of the provisions of this regulation, or fail to comply with any of such
provisions or with any lawful requirements of any public authority made pursuant
to this regulation, or knowingly use or cause or permit the use of any lands in
violation of this regulation or in violation of any permit granted under this
regulation.

2. _(b)_ Upon notice, the Chief Administrative Officer and/or designee may
suspend any active soil disturbing activity for a period not to exceed ninety
(90) days, and may require immediate erosion and sediment control measures
whenever he or she determines that such activity is not meeting the intent of
this regulation. Such notice shall be in writing, shall be given to the
applicant, and shall state the conditions under which work may be resumed. In
instances, however, where the Chief Administrative Officer and/or designee finds
that immediate action is necessary for public safety or the public interest, he
or she may require that work be stopped upon verbal order pending issuance of
the written notice.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.15   Appeals

Any person aggrieved by any order, requirement, determination, or any other
action by the Village in relation to this regulation may appeal to the Board of
Zoning Appeals within ten days of such official action. Such an appeal shall be
made in conformity with Chapter 1111 of the Planning and Zoning Code. Written
notice of appeal shall be served on the Village.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

## 1355.99   Violations and penalties

1. _(a)_ Any person, firm, entity or corporation; including but not limited to,
the owner of the property, his agents and assigns, occupant, property manager,
and any contractor or subcontractor who violates or fails to comply with any
provision of this regulation is guilty of a misdemeanor of the third degree and
shall be fined no more than five hundred dollars ($500.00) or imprisoned for no
more than sixty (60) days, or both, for each offense. A separate offense shall
be deemed committed each day during or on which a violation or noncompliance
occurs or continues.

2. _(b)_ The imposition of any other penalties provided herein shall not
preclude the Village of Chagrin Falls instituting an appropriate action or
proceeding in a Court of proper jurisdiction to prevent an unlawful development,
or to restrain, correct, or abate a violation, or to require compliance with the
provisions of this regulation or other applicable laws, ordinances, rules, or
regulations, or the orders of the Village of Chagrin Falls.\
(Ord. 2016-80. Passed 12-12-16.)

[CFCO 1355.01(d)]:</chapters/chapter-1355-erosion-and-sediment-control/#135501(d)>
[CFCO 1355.06(a)]:</chapters/chapter-1355-erosion-and-sediment-control/#135506(a)>
[CFCO 1355.06(b)]:</chapters/chapter-1355-erosion-and-sediment-control/#135506(b)>
[CFCO 1355.09(b)(1)]:</chapters/chapter-1355-erosion-and-sediment-control/#135509(b)(1)>
[CFCO 1355.09(g)]:</chapters/chapter-1355-erosion-and-sediment-control/#135509(g)>
[CFCO 1355.09]:</chapters/chapter-1355-erosion-and-sediment-control/#135509-performance-standards>
[CFCO 1355.14]:</chapters/chapter-1355-erosion-and-sediment-control/#135514-violations>
[ORC 1515]:<https://codes.ohio.gov/ohio-revised-code/chapter-1515>
[ORC 6111.01]:<https://codes.ohio.gov/ohio-revised-code/section-6111.01>
