---
layout: chapter
part_no: 11
title_no: 1
chapter_no: 1111
title: "Chapter 1111: Appeals and Variances"
---

- [1111.01   Intent.](#111101-intent)
- [1111.02   Jurisdiction.](#111102-jurisdiction)
- [1111.03   Application for appeals or variances.](#111103-application-for-appeals-or-variances)
- [1111.04   Notices.](#111104-notices)
- [1111.05   Meetings, quorum and vote.](#111105-meetings-quorum-and-vote)
- [1111.06   Record of decision.](#111106-record-of-decision)
- [1111.07   Reasons for granting variances.](#111107-reasons-for-granting-variances)
- [1111.08   Variances for yards; supplemental standards.](#111108-variances-for-yards-supplemental-standards)
- [1111.09   Landscape and protective features.](#111109-landscape-and-protective-features)
- [1111.10   Action by Council.](#111110-action-by-council)
- [1111.11   Time period to file appeal.](#111111-time-period-to-file-appeal)

## 1111.01   Intent

The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear any questions or disputes involving the
interpretation of provisions of this Planning and Zoning Code, which shall be
final, unless the matter is referred to the Council as set forth in this
Chapter 1111. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine whether or not a
variance from the strict letter of the Planning and Zoning Code should be
granted. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall determine whether decisions of
administrative officers, boards or commissions should be affirmed, reversed or
modified on appeal.

1. _(a)_ When reviewing a decision of the Planning and Zoning Commission where
it has acted to modify any part of the Planning and Zoning Code, as applied to
any proposed development, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall be guided by the
review standards set out in Sections 1111.07, 1111.08 and 1111.09 of this
Chapter 1111, to the extent applicable.

2. _(b)_ If the standards set out in subsection 1111.01(a) are not applicable,
then the Board of Zoning Appeals shall follow the review standards set out in
the following subsections:

    1. _(1)_ When reviewing other decisions of the Planning and Zoning
    Commission, or decisions of the Architectural Board of Review, or any
    administrative officer, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall first determine if
    (a) the decision was based on a correct interpretation of the Ordinances and
    Regulations of the Municipality; and (b) the decision was not unreasonable
    or an abuse of discretion, where discretion is permitted by the Ordinance or
    Regulation that is the basis for the decision being reviewed.

    2. _(2)_ If the decision was based on an incorrect interpretation, or was
    unlawful, unreasonable or an abuse of discretion, as the case may be, the
    Board of Zoning Appeals may reverse, modify or remand the matter to the
    administrative officer, board or commission that rendered such decision.
    Otherwise the Board of Zoning Appeals shall affirm such decision.\
    ([Ord. 2022-10. Passed 4-11-22.][])

## 1111.02   Jurisdiction

The Board of Zoning Appeals shall adopt such rules and regulations, provided
they are not in conflict with this Planning and Zoning Code or other ordinances
of the Municipality, as may be necessary to carry into effect the powers and
jurisdiction conferred upon it as follows:

1. _(a)_ To hear appeals of final decisions made by the Administrator, or by any
administrative officer, board or commission of the Municipality , on matters
relating to the Planning and Zoning Code, or when directed by other provisions
contained in the Codified Ordinances of the Municipality , for relief from any
order, requirement, decision or determination, including the grant or refusal to
grant a permit, or the revocation of a permit contemplated by this Planning and
Zoning Code; which decision shall be final unless the matter is referred to the
Council pursuant to this Chapter 1111 of the Planning and Zoning Code;

2. _(b)_ To hear and determine applications for variances from the terms
provided in the Planning and Zoning Code subject to the standards provided in
the Planning and Zoning Code;

3. _(c)_ To hear and determine all matters specifically referred to the Board of
Zoning Appeals for determination, such as a determination of district boundary
lines or the interpretation of the Planning and Zoning Code, when the matter is
referred to the Board of Zoning Appeals in the Planning and Zoning Code or other
provisions of the Codified Ordinances.\
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1111.03   Application for appeals or variances

An appeal shall be considered by the Board of Zoning Appeals only after formal
action has been taken by the Administrator or other officers, or is taken at a
public meeting by a board or commission with regard to an application for a
building permit, zoning certificate, issuance of a stop order, specific referral
or some similar action; provided that:

1. _(a)_ Within ten (10) days of such action, an application for appeal shall be
filed with the Administrator; and when applicable, an application for a variance
shall be filed with the Administrator; and

2. _(b)_ Application for appeal or variance shall include reference to the
decision or sections of this Planning and Zoning Code from which the appeal or
variance is sought and all necessary data in accordance with the form provided.

3. _(c)_ An application for an appeal may be filed by (i) the person who has
been denied a building permit, zoning certificate or any other authorization,
(ii) a person who has received a stop work order under any provision of the
Codified Ordinances, (iii) any property owner who can prove they would be
especially damaged by the issuance of a permit or other administrative approval,
or (iv) any property owner who should have received a notice of a request for
approval of a project pursuant to Section 1109.05 of this Planning and Zoning
Code and who has an interest, established by law, in the disposition of such
matter.

4. _(d)_ Prior to filing an application for a variance from the Board of Zoning
Appeals, for the erection, enlargement and/or alteration of a building in the
Municipality, the applicant shall be required to first obtain preliminary plan
approval from the Architectural Board of Review for such building.

5. _(e)_ In the event an aggrieved party was provided with incorrect written
information from the Administrator, Building Inspector, Secretary of the
Planning and Zoning Commission or the Board of Zoning Appeals, or other Village
official with authority to provide information on appeal deadlines, as to the
date when an appeal from formal action taken pursuant to this Section must be
filed, and as a result the aggrieved party is unable to timely file an appeal
from such action, the aggrieved party shall have a period of ten (10) days from
the date that they discovered the correct deadline to file an appeal, but not to
exceed twenty (20) days after formal action has been taken from which an appeal
must ordinarily be filed with the Administrator, by filing the appropriate
application and information as required by the Planning and Zoning Code.

    In the event an appeal is filed pursuant to this section, the Building
    Inspector shall issue an order to the permit recipient to discontinue all
    work authorized under such permit, in accordance with Section 1307.10,
    during the pendency of the appeal. Further work performed under such permit,
    during the pendency of the appeal, shall be deemed to be in violation of
    this provision.\
    ([Ord. 2022-10. Passed 4-11-22.][])

## 1111.04   Notices

The Board of Zoning Appeals, upon receiving an application for a variance, or an
appeal from the decision of the Administrator, Architectural Board of Review or
other administrative entity, shall hold a public hearing. Notice of a public
hearing shall be in accordance with Section 1109.09 of the Planning and Zoning
Code.\
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1111.05   Meetings, quorum and vote

1. _(a)_ **Hearing of Appeals and Variances.** The Board shall allow any
interested party to submit admissible evidence or testimony to the Board,
provided that all testimony shall be submitted under oath, and all interested
parties shall be permitted to cross-examine witnesses and present their
positions, arguments and contentions. In the event the Board determines that
evidence or testimony is not admissible, the Board shall permit the proffer of
such evidence in a manner which allows for the creation of a complete record.

2. _(b)_ **Quorum and Vote.** A majority of the members of the Board of Zoning
Appeals shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. In each case
a motion or motions shall be made to grant the relief requested. Such motions
may be made and seconded by members who are opposed to the motion. The
affirmative vote of three members of the Board shall be necessary for any
official decision. Failure to receive three (3) affirmative votes will
constitute a denial of the motion pending before the Board and will result in an
affirmance of the prior administrative action being reviewed, or the requested
variance(s) will be considered denied. Prior to voting on a motion, Board
members shall state facts which support their decision. Such facts shall become
the basis for Conclusions of Fact by the Board. Members may state their
agreement with a prior articulation of facts and need not restate all facts
supporting their decision prior to voting on the motion.

3. _(c)_ **Decisions and Conclusions of Fact.** After the public hearing, the
Board shall make its determination which shall include a decision and
conclusions of fact. The Board shall also prepare its record in accordance with
Section 1111.06 of this Chapter, when the matter will be referred to Council for
review of the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals.\
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1111.06   Record of decision

1. _(a)_ As soon as possible after the Board of Zoning Appeals makes any final
reviewable decision, the Chief Administrative Officer shall notify, in writing,
the Clerk of Council of such action and notify each member of Council, using the
electronic mail address they have provided to the Clerk of Council for receiving
notices of Council business, or if none, by personal delivery, of the action
taken by the Board of Zoning Appeals.

2. _(b)_ Within fifteen (15) days after receipt of the written notification by
the Chief Administrative Officer regarding a final decision made by the Board of
Zoning Appeals, any three (3) or more members of Council may, in writing and
emailed to the Clerk of Council, with copies provided to each member of Council
at their electronic mail address, or if none by personal delivery, in any form
or manner such Council members deem appropriate, request that the Clerk of
Council set a public hearing to review the decision of the Board of Zoning
Appeals, in which case the Council shall receive testimony, and consider the
evidence presented to Council, which shall also include the record to be
prepared and provided by the Board of Zoning Appeals to Council, including its
decision and conclusions of fact, and the decision of Council shall be final in
regard to any exception, variance, interpretation or review of orders of
administrative officials, boards or agencies of the Municipality, and a majority
of Council shall be required to either affirm or reverse the decision of the
Board of Zoning Appeals.

3. _(c)_ Notice of the hearing by Council shall be given as provided in Section
1109.09 of the Planning and Zoning Code, including to the applicant before the
Board of Zoning Appeals that is the subject of the review by Council.

4. _(d)_ If three (3) or more members of Council fail to request a hearing
within fifteen (15) days after receipt of notification of the decision of the
Board of Zoning Appeals by the Clerk of Council, the decision of the Board of
Zoning Appeals shall be final.

5. _(e)_ The notice to be provided by at least three (3) members of Council to
have such Board of Zoning Appeals' decision reviewed by Council shall provide
the name of the applicant, the address of the property that is the subject of
the exception, variance, interpretation or review of orders of administrative
officials, and which action(s) of the Board of Zoning Appeals will be reviewed
by Council, but the failure to include all such information shall not impair
Council's review of the decision.

6. _(f)_ The Clerk of Council shall give notice of the hearing of the request
for review by the three (3) or more Council members to the applicant, the law
director, and the secretary of the Board of Zoning Appeals.\
([Ord. 2022-10. Passed 4-11-22.][])

## 1111.07   Reasons for granting variances

1. _(a)_ The Board of Zoning Appeals, and in the case of a review of the
decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals' decision by Council, may, in specific
cases, vary, modify or waive the application of certain provisions of this
Planning and Zoning Code, after making findings of fact setting forth the
reasons therefor, with such conditions the Board of Zoning Appeals or Council
believes are necessary to impose in granting a variance in order that the public
health, safety, convenience, comfort and general welfare may be safeguarded and
substantial justice done.\
([Ord. 2022-10. Passed 4-11-22.][])

2. _(b)_ Variances shall not be granted for uses not permitted in the zoning
district applicable to the property, unless a literal application of this
Planning and Zoning Code would result in an unnecessary hardship that:

    1. _(1)_ Was not self-created;

    2. _(2)_ Is due to unique conditions existing on the property;

    3. _(3)_ The property cannot be used for the purposes for which it is zoned;

    4. _(4)_ Will not violate the spirit of the Planning and Zoning Code;

    5. _(5)_ Is the minimum necessary to avoid the unnecessary hardship; and,

    6. _(6)_ Results from special conditions unique to the property being
    reviewed.

3. _(c)_ Area variances may be granted on the basis of a finding of a practical
difficulty. While no single factor controls in the determination of a practical
difficulty, the factors to be considered and weighed include, but are not
limited to:

    1. _(1)_ Whether the property will yield a reasonable return or whether there
    can be any beneficial use of the property without the variance;

    2. _(2)_ Whether the variance is substantial;

    3. _(3)_ Whether the essential character of the neighborhood would be
    substantially altered or whether adjoining properties would suffer a
    substantial detriment as a result of the variance;

    4. _(4)_ Whether the variance would adversely affect the delivery of
    governmental services;

    5. _(5)_ Whether the property owner purchased the property with knowledge of
    the zoning restriction;

    6. _(6)_ Whether the property owner's predicament feasibly can be obviated
    through some method other than a variance;

    7. _(7)_ Whether the spirit and intent behind the zoning requirement would be
    observed and substantial justice done by granting a variance; and,

    8. _(8)_ Whether the variance is based on circumstances that are self-
    created or exist as a result of actions of the property owner.\
    (Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1111.08   Variances for yards; supplemental standards

The Board of Zoning Appeals, or in the case of a review of its decision by
Council, the Council, may permit variations of yard regulations in a residential
district for a lot of record, provided the Board of Zoning Appeals, or Council,
as the case may be, finds that privacy will not be impaired, and that light and
ventilation will be adequate on such lot and not unduly diminished on adjoining
lots.\
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1111.09   Landscape and protective features

The Board of Zoning Appeals, or in the case of a review of its decision by
Council, the Council, upon making various determinations, shall endeavor to
protect adjoining property, to assure safety of pedestrians and convenience of
traffic movements within the area in question, and may require the provision of
curbs, guard rails, walls, fences or other landscape or protective features, to
further the purposes of this Planning and Zoning Code.\
(Ord. 2019-39. Passed 8-13-19.)

## 1111.10   Action by council

1. _(a)_ When required to review a decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals,
pursuant to Section 1111.06 of the Zoning Code, each case shall be considered by
Council upon the record created by the Board of Zoning Appeals, and as
supplemented by the evidence presented by the applicant, the Municipality or
anyone else interested in the proceeding.

2. _(b)_ Council shall apply the laws of the Municipality to the facts of the
case as those facts are contained in the record which was created by the Board
of Zoning Appeals or supplemented in the proceedings before Council, where
testimony shall be taken under oath and subject to issuance of subpoenas upon
request, and such testimony shall be subject to cross examination whether it be
presented at the Board of Zoning Appeals or Council.

3. _(c)_ In the event the Council does not follow the decision of the Board of
Zoning Appeals, Council shall make its own decision and shall adopt Conclusions
of Fact which support its decision, and which are found in the record.

4. _(d)_ **Quorum and Vote.** A majority of the members of Council shall
constitute a quorum for the review of the Board of Zoning Appeals decision. In
each case a motion or motions shall be made to grant the relief requested. Such
motions may be made and seconded by members who are opposed to the motion. The
affirmative vote of four members of Council shall be necessary for any official
decision. Failure to receive four (4) affirmative votes will constitute a denial
of the review pending before Council and will result in an affirmance of the
prior administrative action being reviewed. Prior to voting on a motion, the
movant and/or other Council members shall state findings which support their
decision. Such findings shall become the basis for Conclusions of Fact by the
Council. Members may state their agreement with the proffered findings and need
not restate all findings supporting their decision prior to voting on the
motion.

5. _(e)_ At any time prior to a final decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals,
or Council, the applicant may withdraw the application. Receipt of notice of the
withdrawal of an appeal or an application for a variance or exception, at any
time prior to final action by the Board of Zoning Appeals, or Council, as the
case may be, shall reinstate the prior decision of any administrative officer or
body and the appeal or application for a variance or exception shall be treated
as though it had not been submitted, except that the applicant will not be
entitled to the return of any fees, deposits or costs required in this Planning
and Zoning Code.

6. _(f)_ After reviewing the Board of Zoning Appeals' decision, Council may
affirm, affirm and modify or reverse the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals
by a majority vote of all of its members.

7. _(g)_ Immediately following Council's decision, notice of such decision shall
be mailed to the applicant and all interested parties who personally appeared
before Council to support affirmance or reversal of the decision of the Board of
Zoning Appeals.

8. _(h)_ The applicant or any interested party who appeared or was represented
at the Council meeting(s) where the matter was heard, and was harmed by the
action of Council may appeal Council's decision pursuant to Ohio R.C.
Chapter 2506.\
([Ord. 2022-10. Passed 4-11-22.][])

## 1111.11   Time period to file appeal

The applicant or any such interested party who is held by action of Council may
appeal Council's decision pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 2506. The time period to
appeal any final decision rendered by either (i) the Board of Zoning Appeals, in
the event three (3) members of Council have not requested that Council review a
decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals, within fifteen (15) days after such
decision, or (ii) by the Council, in the event Council is required to review a
decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals pursuant to Section 1111.06 of this
Planning and Zoning Code, shall commence to run upon the date that the
Administrator or his designee sends notice, by electronic mail, or by depositing
a letter with the United States Postal Service, with postage pre- paid,
notifying the aggrieved party who first filed an appeal to the Board of Zoning
Appeals of the final decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals, or the Council, as
the case may be. The notice shall be sent to the e-mail address or residence or
business address designated by the applicant when filing an application for
relief from the Board of Zoning Appeals. Failure of the applicant to receive
such notice shall not be a basis for tolling or extending the time period to
file an appeal pursuant to Ohio R.C. Chapter 2506.\
(Ord. 2021-20. Passed 5-24-21.)

[Ord. 2022-10. Passed 4-11-22.]:</ordinance-2022-10/>
