---
layout: page
part_no: 1
title_no: 3
chapter_no: 114
title: "Chapter 114: Open Meetings"
---

- [114.01   Public meetings](#11401-public-meetings)
- [114.02   Public notification](#11402-public-notification)
- [114.03   Personal notification](#11403-personal-notification)
- [114.04   Minutes of meetings](#11404-minutes-of-meetings)

## Cross references

* Open meetings - see Ohio R.C. 121.22

## 114.01   Public meetings

Unless otherwise provided in the Codified Ordinances, all meetings of Council,
Council Committees, Commissions, Boards and other similar public bodies of the
Municipality, shall be held at the Village Hall.

All meetings of the described public bodies shall be open to the public, unless
an executive session is expressly authorized under the applicable provisions of
State law.  
(Ord.1975-992. Passed 12-2-75.)

## 114.02   Public notification

1. _(a)_ **Regular Meetings.** The time and place of all regular meetings of
Council, Council Committees, Commissions, Boards and other similar public bodies
of the Municipality shall be noted in a calendar of monthly meetings. This
calendar shall be posted at the Village Hall.

2. _(b)_ **Special Meetings.** Notification of any special meeting of Council,
Council Committees, Commissions and Boards shall be made to any news media
requesting such notification twenty-four hours prior to the time of such
meetings. This notification shall include the time, place and purpose of the
special meeting.

3. _(c)_ **Emergency Meetings.** In the event of an emergency meeting, notice of
such emergency meeting shall be communicated to the news media who have
requested notification of the time, place and purpose of the emergency
meeting.  
(Ord.1975-992. Passed 12-2-75.)

## 114.03   Personal notification

1. _(a)_ Any person, organization or group of persons is entitled to mail notice
of the calendar of monthly meetings. To obtain this notice, such persons are
required to fill out a form provided by the Clerk of Council for such purpose
and shall deposit the sum of one hundred dollars ($100.00) per year in advance
for such notices of the calendar of monthly meetings.

2. _(b)_ Any requesting person, organization or group of persons shall receive
advance notice of all meetings at which any specific type of public business
will be discussed and/or acted upon. To obtain this notice, such persons are
required to fill out a form provided by the Clerk of Council for such purpose,
and shall deposit the sum provided under subsection (a) hereof in advance for
such notices of the calendar of monthly meetings.  
(Ord.1975-992. Passed 12-2-75; Ord.1990-79. Passed 10-8-90.)

## 114.04   Minutes of meetings

1. _(a)_ **Minutes.** Minutes of all regular and special meetings of Council,
Council Committees, Commissions and Boards shall promptly be recorded in writing
and open to the public for inspection. Minutes of executive sessions of public
bodies need only reflect the general subject matter of discussion in such
executive session.

2. _(b)_ **Location of Minute Books.** The Clerk of Council shall keep a minute
book for each public body. The minute books shall contain the minutes of all
meetings of each public body. The public may inspect the minute books at all
reasonable times.  
(Ord.1975-992. Passed 12-2-75.)

## 114.05   Virtual public meetings and hearings

1. _(a)_ **Definitions.** As used in this section:

    1. _(1)_ "Council" shall mean the Council referenced.in Article 4 of the
    Charter of the Village of Chagrin Falls.

    2. _(2)_ "Electronically" means by way of electronic equipment or devices,
    including but not limited to, live-streaming by means of internet, local
    radio, television, cable public access channels; call in information for a
    teleconference; or by means of any other similar electronic technology.

    3. _(3)_ "Open to the public" means that a public meeting, or hearing
    conducted in-person, virtually, or any combination thereof, to which the
    public has access to the deliberations and official actions of the public
    body in-person, virtually, electronically, or any combination thereof.

    4. _(4)_ "Public body" shall have the same meaning as defined in RC 121.22.

    5. _(5)_ "Virtually" means by way of teleconference, video conference, or
    any other similar electronic technology.

2. _(b)_ **Attendance.** Each public body may permit its members to attend its
public meetings or hearings in-person, virtually, or a combination of the two.
The following shall apply if any or all of the members are permitted to attend
virtually:

    1. _(1)_ Each member attending virtually shall be considered present as if
    the member is in-person at the public meeting or hearing, shall be permitted
    to vote, and shall be counted for purposes of determining whether a quorum
    is present at the public meeting or hearing;

    2. _(2)_ Any vote on a resolution, ordinance or formal action of any kind
    cast by a member attending virtually shall have the same effect as if member
    is in-person at the public meeting or hearing; and

    3. _(3)_ The public body shall ensure that the public can observe and hear
    the discussions and deliberations of all the members of the public body,
    whether members are attending in-person or virtually.

3. _(c)_ **Open to the Public.** Except as set forth in this Ordinance, each
public body shall determine the method by which its meetings, or hearings are
open to the public. For public hearings conducted virtually, the public body
must also establish a means, through the use of electronic equipment that is
widely available to the general public, to communicate with witnesses and to
receive documentary testimony and physical evidence. All participants, parties
and proposed witnesses, when appearing virtually, must be shown using their full
name or name on record while in the virtual meeting or hearing. Each witness
shall enable and use both video and audio at all times during their testimony,
unless they do not have the capability of using video technology where they may
be at the time of the meeting or hearing. All participants shall insure that
there will be no interruptions or distractions for the duration of their
appearance at the meeting or hearing.

4. _(d)_ All participants at a meeting or hearing who intend to submit exhibits
shall pre-file the proposed exhibits at least three (3) business days in advance
of any virtual hearing or meeting by submitting such documents in PDF format and
submitting them to the Chief Administrative Officer of the Village, or other
such person as the Chief Administrative Officer may designate. The Chair of each
public body may allow exhibits not submitted prior to a meeting or hearing to be
used at the meeting or hearing, such as documents used to impeach a witness or
for rebuttal purposes. At the Chair’s discretion, the Chair may permit a party
to transmit an exhibit to the public body during the meeting or hearing by email
or other method approved by the Chair. Upon conclusion of the meeting or
hearing, the Village will not be obligated to maintain any proposed exhibits or
other documents that were not made a part of the record during the meeting or
hearing and may delete them from an email inbox, virtual drop box, or other
virtual storage folder at the convenience of the Village Administration.

5. _(e)_ **Notice to the Public.** Each public body shall provide at least
twelve (12) hours’ prior notification of the time, place, agenda items, and the
manner by which the meeting or hearing will be held and where possible or
convenient, an email address to submit proposed exhibits or other documents for
a meeting or hearing.

6. _(f)_ **Authority.** The Council, by motion, may determine when virtual
meetings or hearings will be utilized, and which public bodies shall hold
virtual meetings or hearings. Whenever there is a public health emergency, or
other emergency or a clear and present danger to the safety or health of the
public and Council has not determined that public bodies shall meet virtually,
the President of Council may, by email notice to all members of Council, the
Mayor, the Chief Administrative Officer, and the Law Director, declare that one
or more meetings or hearings be held virtually until the next regularly
scheduled Council meeting at which time the Council will determine if virtual
meetings shall continue for one or more public bodies of the Village.  
(Ord. 2022-01. Passed 1-3-22.)