---
layout: post
title: "Move To Amend Day"
# ordinance_no: "2020-32"
---

Chagrin Falls Village Initiative Calling on Congress to Support Amending the U.S. Constitution to Establish That Corporations Are Not People and Money Is Not Speech

_Whereas,_ free and fair elections are essential to American democracy and
effective self-governance; and

_Whereas,_ in a 2010 decision by the U.S. Supreme Court, Citizens United v.
Federal Elections Commission, the Supreme Court ruled that corporate entities
have the same rights as individual human beings to free speech protections and
unrestricted spending on political speech; and

_Whereas,_ the judicial bestowal of civil and political rights upon corporations
usurps basic Constitutional rights guaranteed to human beings, and also empowers
corporations to sue municipal and state governments for adopting laws that
violate "corporate free speech," even when those laws serve to protect and
defend the rights of human persons and communities; and

_Whereas,_ money is property, not speech, and therefore the judicial
interpretation of money as equivalent to political speech in effect contradicts
the principle of one person, one vote by allowing unlimited spending by wealthy
individuals and corporations to influence campaigns, elections, lawmaking and
public policy decisions; and

_Whereas,_ local governments play an important role in protecting the integrity
of our political process,

**_Now Therefore, Be It Ordained by Initiative by the people of the Village of
Chagrin Falls, Ohio, that the Administrative Code of the Chagrin Falls Codified
Ordinance be enacted to include a new ordinance Title NINE, "Political Influence
by Corporate Entities" which shall read as follows:_**

---

# Chapter 171: Political Influence by Corporate Entities

## Section 171.01

Beginning in 2015, the Mayor and Village Council shall designate one day, every
two years, during the first week of March "Move to Amend Day." On this day, the
Mayor and Village Council shall sponsor a Public Meeting to study the impact on
our Village of political influence by corporate entities, including unions and
Political Action Committees, in connection with the most recent election.
Members of the general public in attendance shall be afforded the opportunity to
speak on these matters for up to five minutes per person. The Village shall
record the minutes of the hearing and make them available to the public by
posting them on the Village's website

## Section 171.02

Within one (1) week following the biennial Public Hearing, the Clerk of Village
Council shall send a letter to the leaders of the Ohio House and Senate, to our
U.S. Congressional Representative, and to both Ohio Senators. The letter will
include a brief summary of the Public Hearing and will state that the citizens
of the Village of Chagrin Falls in November 2014 voted in support of a Citizens'
Initiative calling for an amendment to the U.S. Constitution declaring:

1. _(1)_ Only human beings, not corporations, are legal persons with
Constitutional rights, and

2. _(2)_ Money is not equivalent to speech, and therefore regulating political
contributions and spending does not equate to limiting political speech.

## Section 171.03

The biennial Public Hearings will no longer be required if
and when a Constitutional Amendment reflecting the principles set forth in
Section 2 is ratified by three-quarters (3/4) of the state legislatures.
