---
layout: post
title: "Real Property Donation Agreement"
ordinance_no: "2020-32"
---

## Real Property Donation Agreement

This Real Property Donation Agreement (this "Agreement") is made as of this 29th
day of July 2020, by Western Reserve Land Conservancy ("**WRLC**"), to the
Village of Chagrin Falls (the "**Village**").

### Recitals

1. _(1)_ WRLC and the Village recently became aware of a local developer's plans
to raze the historic Bancroft House and redevelop the Grove Hill property, known
as Parcel Number 931-12-004 (the "Property") in downtown Chagrin Falls Village
with multiple contemporary homes, and immediately understood the need to partner
to save and protect the Property from demolition and development.

2. _(2)_ Due to significant public outcry within the Chagrin Falls Community and
at the Village's request, WRLC immediately took action by negotiating for
control of the Property through the acquisition of Three Summit, LLC, the entity
that owned the Property, and coordinating an aggressive fundraising campaign in
order to raise sufficient funding for the acquisition.

3. _(3)_ On or about May 15, 2020, having completed a successful fundraising
campaign, WRLC acquired ownership of Three Summit, LLC and control of the entire
Property.

4. _(4)_ As a result of its acquisition, WRLC currently controls the single
parcel that is the Property. WRLC is in the process of completing a lot split of
the Property that will create two (2) separate parcels:

    1. _(a)_ an approximately 0.7-acre lot containing all of the Property's
    improvements (the "Bancroft Home Parcel") which WRLC intends to sell to a
    private buyer (the "Bancroft Buyer") with restrictions that will prevent the
    demolition and redevelopment of the historic Bancroft Home, and

    2. _(b)_ an approximately 0.3-acre vacant lot that WRLC intends to donate,
    pursuant to this Agreement, to the Village for use as a passive public park
    (the "Park Parcel"), both parcels are depicted on the attached Exhibit A.

5. _(5)_ WRLC now intends to donate the Park Parcel to the Village, conditioned
upon the terms of this Agreement and the Village's commitment to improve and
operate the Park Parcel as a co-branded signature park of WRLC and the Village.

### Concluding the Gift

**_Now Therefore, in consideration of the mutual promises contained herein, it is agreed upon between WRLC and the Village as follows:_**

1. _(1)_ **Title Commitment/Deed.** Upon complete execution of this Agreement by
the parties (the "Execution Date"), the Village shall obtain from Ohio Real
Title Agency, LLC (the "Title Company" and "Escrow Agent) a written commitment
(the "Title Commitment") for an Owner's Policy of Title Insurance (the "Title
Policy") to be examined and accepted by the Village. In the event the Village
will not accept the condition of title, due to matters of title that impair the
intended use of the park Parcel for a park, this Agreement will be terminated.
Between the Execution Date and July 30, 2020, the Village shall provide
notification to WRLC that it is satisfied with the condition of the Park Parcel
and the condition of title, and upon such notification, WRLC shall cause to be
placed in escrow an executed limited warranty deed (the "Deed") transferring the
Park Parcel to the Village, subject to those exceptions to title as identified
in the Title Commitment and restrictions to be place [sic] on the Park Parcel,
through the Deed, which shall restrict the Park Parcel to only such uses as are
consistent with that of passive use public parks. For purposes of this Agreement
the term "passive use public park" shall expressly exclude dog parks.

2. _(2)_ **Costs and Expenses.** The Escrow Agent shall charge to the Village
the costs and expenses of closing the donation of the Park Parcel, including but
not limited to: (a) the costs of examination of title and the Commitment Fee,
(b) the premium for the Title Policy, (c) conveyance fee, if any, and (d) all
recording fees (the "Closing Costs"). In addition to the Closing Costs, the
Village agrees to reimburse WRLC for the cost to purchase and install decorative
cast aluminum black fencing with up to two gates, in an amount not to exceed
$8,000.00, the specific nature and style of which the Village and WRLC shall
agree to, approximately along the boundary between the Park Parcel and the
Bancroft Home Parcel (the "Fence Costs"). If it is deemed necessary or
appropriate, for public safety reasons, to extend this fencing around the east,
south and west boundaries of the Park Parcel the parties acknowledge that it
will be at the Village's sole expense when the Park Parcel is improved at a
future time.

3. _(3)_ **Escrow.** On or before August 5, 2020 (the "Closing Date"), and upon
payment of all costs and expenses as provided above in paragraph 2, and WRLC's
confirmation of Village's adherence to the conditions to closing below, the
Escrow Agent shall proceed to file the Deed for record with the Recorder of
Cuyahoga County, Ohio and shall immediately thereafter issue the Title Policy.

4. _(4)_ **Conditions to Closing.**

    1. _(a)_ In addition to the conditions provided elsewhere in this
    Agreement, the obligation of WRLC to consummate the transaction contemplated
    by this Agreement shall be subject to the satisfaction or waiver in writing
    of each of the following conditions on or before the transfer of the Park
    Parcel, or other date as specified:

        1. _(i)_ The Village shall cooperate with the Bancroft Buyer as is
        reasonably necessary and appropriate to recover the scenic views
        surrounding the Bancroft Home Parcel through the removal and/or
        alteration of vegetation located on the Park Parcel. In furtherance of
        this condition, in addition to considering reasonable requests for such
        removal and alteration of vegetation submitted by Bancroft Buyer, the
        Village shall provide Bancroft Buyer with the opportunity to review and
        comment on any landscape plans providing for the initial installation or
        removal of trees, it being the intent of the Village to only remove dead
        or diseased trees, and pine trees that impair the scenic views, and
        scrub growing on the Park Parcel

        2. _(ii)_ The Village shall consult with and submit development plans to
        the Bancroft Buyer during the development and excavation of the Park
        Parcel to avoid any reasonable concern that there will be any adverse
        impact to the Bancroft Home Parcel, including subsidence, structural
        integrity or otherwise.

        3. _(iii)_ The Village shall cause the installation and provide ongoing
        maintenance of up to two locked access gates between the Bancroft Home
        Parcel and the Park Parcel and provide the Bancroft Buyer with secure
        and with the approval of the Village access through such gates.

        4. _(iv)_ The Village shall reimburse WRLC for all Fence Costs as
        described in paragraph 2, subject to the monetary limit set forth in
        Section 2. WRLC shall provide written estimates for approval by the
        Village prior to installation of the fencing.

        5. _(v)_ The Village shall be responsible for the costs associated with
        the development and ongoing maintenance of the future Village park. WRLC
        will cooperate with the Village in seeking Nature Works or other park
        development financing options.

        6. _(vi)_ The Village acknowledges that without WRLC's emergency
        intervention it would have been impossible to accomplish the acquisition
        and preservation of the Property. To memorialize WRLC's extraordinary
        leadership of and contributions to the Project, the Village and WRLC
        agree to co-brand the future park. Specifically, WRLC shall be permitted
        to install signage at its own expense, in cooperation with and by first
        obtaining the approval of the Village, and to brand the future park as
        one of WRLC's Signature Parks and Preserves. The Village agrees to allow
        WRLC's signage to be located in prominent places such as at the corner
        of Cottage and Main, subject to compliance with the Village Planning and
        Zoning Code. The Village shall include WRLC's name and brand prominently
        on any and all signage, kiosks, and any other informational materials
        associated with the future park. The Village and WRLC shall establish a
        committee that will serve until the future park is constructed,
        consisting of four members to recommend to the Village Parks Commission,
        who then recommends to Village Council the design of the future park
        (the "Grove Hill Park Committee"). The committee shall receive public
        input on the design of the park before making its recommendation to
        the Village Parks Commission. The Grove Hill Park Committee shall be
        comprised of two members from each entity, with the Village appointees
        to be named by the Mayor of the Village and confirmed by the Village
        Council, and in the event of a tie vote on the design recommendation,
        both committee positions shall be presented to the Village Parks
        Commission..

    2. _(b)_ In the event that any condition described in this paragraph or
    elsewhere in this Agreement, with respect to the performance of the parties,
    is not satisfied or waived in writing by WRLC on or before the date on which
    it is required to be satisfied, WRLC shall have the right to postpone the
    Closing Date and, therefore, the transfer of the Park Parcel, or to
    terminate this Agreement, if such performance is not cured within thirty
    days after receiving written notice of such non-performance, by written
    notice to the Village and Escrow Agent.

    3. _(c)_ Since several of the provisions of this paragraph 4 pertain to the
    Village and WRLC working with the Bancroft Buyer, for purposes of this
    Agreement, the Bancroft Buyer, Little Rooster LLC, and its sole member Frank
    Gallucci, shall be intended third-party beneficiaries to this Agreement and,
    as such, shall have standing to enforce the provisions hereof as they relate
    to Bancroft Buyer.

5. _(5)_ **Possession.** Possession of the Park Parcel will pass to the Village
on the date the Deed is filed of record.

6. _(6)_ **Tax Proration.** All taxes and assessments due and payable as of the
date of this Agreement have been satisfied by WRLC. Any future taxes and
assessments not yet due and payable shall be the responsibility of the Village
until such time as the Village is able to obtain a tax exemption for the Park
Parcel.

7. _(7)_ **Release.** The Village agrees to accept the Property "as is" in its
present condition, including but not by way of limitation, any environmental
matters.

8. _(8)_ **Miscellaneous.** This Agreement (a) may be modified only by written
instrument executed by both WRLC and the Village; (b) constitutes the entire
agreement of WRLC and the Village with respect to the subject matter of this
Agreement and supersedes all prior agreements, understandings, or
representations relating to the subject matter of this Agreement; (c) shall be
construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Ohio; and
(d) may be executed in counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original,
but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.
