---
layout: post
title: "Amending Codified Ordinance Section 124.23(A) and Codified Ordinance 953.031(M) to Correct Typographical Errors"
ordinance_no: "2022-51"
---

- Introduced by: Subel
- 1st Reading (09/12/2022)

_Whereas,_ when certain Ordinances were adopted in the past or when codification
occurred certain typographical errors were made including one each in Codified
Ordinance [Sections 124.23(A)][Section 124.23(A)] and [953.031(m)][Section
953.031(m)]; and

_Whereas,_ the Council for the Village of Chagrin Falls has determined that it
should correct the typographical errors, and direct the Walter H. Drane Company
to correct typographical errors made by the codifier.

**_Now Therefore, Be It Ordained by the Council of the Village of Chagrin Falls,
Cuyahoga County, State of Ohio:_**

**Section 1.** [Section 124.23(A)][] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village
of Chagrin Falls is hereby amended to change the reference of June 31st to June
30th, and the remainder of [Section 124.23(A)][] shall remain unchanged and in
full force and effect. There is no June 31st and therefore [Section 124.23(A)][]
is hereby corrected to reflect such scrivener's error.

**Section 2.** [Section 953.031(m)][] of the Codified Ordinances is hereby
amended by changing the word "plat" to the word "plate" to correct a
typographical error. The remainder of [953.031(m)][Section 953.031(m)] shall
remain unchanged and in full force and effect, and the change is made to correct
a typographical error in such subsection.

**Section 3.** Walter H. Drane Company is hereby directed to correct errors made
during the publication and codification of the following Codified Ordinances by
making the following changes:

1. _(a)_ [Section 136.01][CF Section 136.01] of the Codified Ordinances shall be
corrected in the last sentence thereof by changing the reference to "municipal
officer" to the phrase "municipal office".

2. _(b)_ [Section 351.17][CF Section 351.17] of the Codified Ordinances shall be
corrected by re-lettering subsection 351.17(d) as [Section 351.17(c)][].

**Section 4.** That actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this legislation were adopted in lawful meetings of this Council and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were in compliance with all legal requirements,
including Chapter 114 of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin
Falls.

**Section 5.** That in accordance with [Section 113.01][CF Section 113.01] of
the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls, public notice of this
Ordinance shall be given by posting a copy thereof for not less than fifteen
(15) days in the Village Hall.

**Section 6.** That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force after the
earliest period allowed by law.

[CF Section 113.01]:</chapters/chapter-113-ordinances-and-resolutions/#11301-publication-and-posting>
[CF Section 136.01]:</chapters/chapter-136-board-of-zoning-appeals/#13601-establishment-members>
[CF Section 351.17]:</chapters/chapter-351-parking-generally/#35117-waiver>
[Section 124.23(A)]:</chapters/chapter-124-municipal-income-tax-effective-january-1-2016/#12423(A)>
[Section 351.17(c)]:</chapters/chapter-351-parking-generally/#35117(c)>
[Section 953.031(m)]:</chapters/chapter-953-evergreen-cemetery/#953031(m)>
