---
layout: post
title: "An Ordinance to Prohibit the Sale of Goods and Services at Public Property in the Village of Chagrin Falls, And Declaring an Emergency"
ordinance_no: "2023-60"
---

- Introduced by: Rockey
- 1st Reading (10/23/2023)

_Whereas,_ the Village has been receiving numerous complaints from residents,
business operators and users of the Village parks that sales of goods and
services are occurring from stationary places, including the bringing of tables
and chairs and signage to display such goods and services available for sale at
Village parks; and

_Whereas,_ the Village Council has determined that Village owned public property
should not be the situs of unregulated sales of goods and services and there is
an abundance of available commercial space within the Village of Chagrin Falls
to sell such services and goods on a competitive and fair basis with existing
business establishments in the Village and in order to protect and preserve the
peace and tranquility of the public parks and the effective and efficient public
administration of Village business on Village owned public property.

**_Now Therefore, Be It Ordained by the Council of the Village of Chagrin Falls,
Cuyahoga County, State of Ohio:_**

**Section 1.** For the purposes of this Ordinance, Public Property shall mean
the Village Hall, the Village cemeteries, the Village utility plant facilities,
the Village public parks, and any other property owned by the Village of Chagrin
Falls including the streets and sidewalks.

**Section 2.** For the purposes of this Ordinance, Public Sale means any sale
and delivery or offer of sale of any goods, equipment, wares, merchandise,
furnishings, furniture, services, substances, articles or things that are
offered or kept for sale.

**Section 3.** No person shall engage in Public Sales on or at Public Property
at any time, provided, however, at a short duration event that Village Council
approves to occur on Village Public Property, and specifically authorizes a
Public Sale as part of the event such Public Sale shall be permitted only in
accordance with the terms and conditions imposed by the Village Council in
approving a Public Sale at such event to occur on Public Property. Whenever any
authorized Public Sale occurs on Public Property, the event operator(s) shall
display, at all times during the event, a plaque, sign or similar notice issued
by the Chief Administrative Officer that a Public Sale is permitted during the
event occurring on Public Property. The goods, signs, equipment, displays, tents
and other property used for the Public Sale shall be removed no later than the
end of the event. The event operator(s) shall be responsible to ensure that all
refuse and trash is removed from the Public Property at the end of each day and
at the end of the approved event at any Public Property.

**Section 4.** Any approval issued for a Public Sale pursuant to this Ordinance
may be revoked in writing by the Chief Administrative Officer in the event the
person(s) conducting a Public Sale on Public Property are in violation of any of
the provisions set forth in this Ordinance, or other Ordinances of the Village
of Chagrin Falls or statutes of the State of Ohio. Any such revocation may be
appealed to Village Council by submitting a written notice of appeal to the
Clerk of Council within ten (10) days of receiving notice of revocation.

**Section 5.** Any person violating this Ordinance shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor of the third degree.

**Section 6.** That actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this legislation were adopted in lawful meetings of this Council and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were in compliance with all legal requirements,
including [Chapter 114][CFCO 114] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of
Chagrin Falls.

**Section 7.** That in accordance with [Section 113.01][CFCO 113.01] of the
Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls, public notice of this
Ordinance shall be given by posting a copy thereof for not less than fifteen
(15) days in the Village Hall.

**Section 8.** This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure
immediately necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health and
safety of the inhabitants of the Village and for the further reason that this
Ordinance is necessary needs to be immediately effective to stop unregulated
Public Sales that are occurring on Public Property and are impairing the peace
and tranquility of the public parks and may interfere with the efficient
administration of Village government; wherefore, provided it receives the
affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (â…”) of all members elected to Council,
this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and immediately upon its
passage and approval by the Mayor, otherwise it shall take effect and be in
force after the earliest period allowed by law.

[CFCO 113.01]:</chapters/chapter-113-ordinances-and-resolutions/#11301-publication-and-posting>
[CFCO 114]:</chapters/chapter-114-open-meetings>
