---
layout: post
title: "An Ordinance of the Village of Chagrin Falls to Establish a Donation Policy"
ordinance_no: "2023-37"
---

- Introduced by: Rogoff
- 1st Reading (06/26/2023)
- 2nd Reading (07/10/2023)

_Whereas,_ the Council desires to establish policies regarding donations offered
to the Village, in order for the donors and Village officials to be able to
determine when and the circumstances under which donations will be approved and
received by the Village.

**_Now Therefore, Be It Ordained by the Council of the Village of Chagrin Falls,
Cuyahoga County, State of Ohio:_**

**Section 1.** The Council for the Village of Chagrin Falls does hereby adopt a
Donation Policy as more fully set forth in the policy attached hereto and made a
part hereof as **Exhibit "A"**.

**Section 2.** That actions of this Council concerning and relating to the
passage of this legislation were adopted in lawful meetings of this Council and
that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that
resulted in such formal action were in compliance with all legal requirements,
including [Chapter 114][CFCO 114] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of
Chagrin Falls.

**Section 3.** That in accordance with [Section 113.01][CFCO 113.01] of the
Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls, public notice of this
Ordinance shall be given by posting a copy thereof for not less than fifteen
(15) days in the Village Hall.

**Section 4.** That this Ordinance shall take effect and be in force after the
earliest period allowed by law.

## Exhibit "A"

# Donation Policy

## I. Purpose

This Donation Policy applies to all solicited and unsolicited donations to the
Village of Chagrin Falls ("Village"). This policy and the guidelines shall
govern the acceptance of gifts by the Village and provide guidance to
prospective donors when making a gift to the Village.

## II. Definitions

1. _(A)_ **Donation:** a contribution made to the Village without expectation of
goods, services or significant benefit or recognition in return. Donations may
be in the form of cash or in-kind contributions of products, services,
investment securities, land with or without buildings and structures located
thereon, or any combination thereof. A Donation may be unrestricted, where the
donor has placed no limitation on its use, or restricted, where the donor has
restricted its use to a specified purpose. Donations that, if accepted, would
obligate the Village to enter into a service, procurement, or similar
arrangement with a Donor, (but not including Donation Agreements where no
service, procurement or similar arrangement must be incurred), shall not be
considered a Donation. Grants to the Village from a local, county, state or
federal agency are not subject to this policy.

2. _(B)_ **Donation Agreement:** An agreement between the Village and the Donor
that details any restrictions on a Donation as well as the respective
obligations of the Donor and the Village.

3. _(C)_ **Donor:** Any organization or individual who provides the Village with
a Donation.

4. _(D)_ **Established Fundraising:** Donations extended to recurrent annual
events, in-kind donations associated with annual events, or donations for the
maintenance and upkeep of donated materials by the original donor, such as, but
not limited to, Memorial Day events, preplanned programs, and similar programs
previously approved by Council.

5. _(E)_ **Fundraising:** Any activity conducted with the intent of generating
Donations to the Village. Fundraising activities may include, but are not
limited to, promoting an endowment program, program adoption or pledge drives,
and contacting individuals, companies, foundations, or other entities with a
request for a Donation to the Village.

6. _(F)_ **Restricted Donation.** A Donation that can only be used by the
Village for a special purpose specified by the Donor, or a Donation specifically
designated for a particular purpose, use, or location.

7. _(G)_ **Supported Fundraising:** Any Fundraising that has the support or
approval of the Village, as evidenced by legislative approval enacted by the
Village Council.

## III. General provisions

1. _(1)_ The Village welcomes unrestricted Donations as well as Restricted
Donations that enhance Village services, reduce costs that the Village would
incur in the absence of the Donation, or that otherwise provide a benefit to the
Village.

2. _(2)_ The Village may decline any Donation without comment or cause.

3. _(3)_ Prior to starting any <ins>fundraising on behalf of the Village, or
prior to starting any</ins> Supported Fundraising, as defined in Section II (G),
of this Policy, Village Council approval shall first be required.

4. <ins>_(4)_ Before any Fundraising plan for a Supported Fundraising is
approved by the Village, the proponents of the Fundraising plan shall submit a
proposed Fundraising plan providing the information requested on the Fundraising
Plan form approved by the Chief Administrative Officer of the Village.</ins>

4. _<del>(4)</del><ins>(5)</ins>_ The Council President shall refer any
Donation requests that require approval by the Village, or any proposed
Supported Fundraising to the appropriate Council committee(s) to review the
proposed Donation or Fundraising.

5. _<del>(5)</del><ins>(6)</ins>_ Donors shall not expect, nor shall the
Village grant, any extra consideration to the Donor in relation to Village
procurement, regulatory matters, or any other business, services, or operations
of the Village.

6. _<del>(6)</del><ins>(7)</ins>_ <del>No</del> Village Council
Member<del>s</del>, <ins>the Mayor, or any Village</ins> Commissioner, Board
Member, employee, or volunteer shall <ins>not</ins> solicit Donations in excess
of <ins>Five Hundred Dollars (</ins>$500.00<ins>)</ins> in money or in-kind
services for any Supported Fundraising unless the Council for the Village of
Chagrin Falls has approved a Fundraising plan for the Supported Fundraising.
<del>Before any Fundraising plan for a Supported Fundraising is approved by the
Village, the proponents of the Fundraising plan shall submit a proposed
Fundraising plan providing the information requested on the Fundraising Plan
form attached hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit "A", or such amended form
approved by the Chief Administrative Officer of the Village.</del>

7. _<del>(7)</del><ins>(8)</ins>_ Donations must be directly related to
providing goods or services to the public or for another valid public purpose.

## IV. Guidelines for considering whether to receive restricted and unrestricted donations

In determining whether to accept a Donation, the Chief Administrative Officer,
or Village Council, as the case may be, shall consider the following criteria:

1. _(1)_ Is the Donation permitted under applicable ethics laws, rules, and
regulations.

2. _(2)_ Does a Restricted Donation conflict with Village priorities, policies,
programs, or ordinances.

3. _(3)_ Does the Donation in any way invoke future consideration, influence, or
perceive to influence the day-to-day operations of the Village.

4. _(4)_ Does the Donation require long term maintenance and will the Village be
able to fund any future maintenance, repair or replacement associated with the
purchase, acquisition, or construction of a facility or program.

5. _(5)_ Is the Donation financially feasible based on the cost of the proposed
Donation or project implementation, including installation and ongoing
maintenance.

6. _(6)_ Does the Donation create any public safety or security issues or a
potential danger to public health and safety.

## V. Acceptance of real estate donations

1. _(1)_ Gifts of real estate may include developed or undeveloped property or
gifts subject to a life interest or reversionary right. Whenever Donations are
made of non-residential property, a Phase I Environmental Assessment shall be
required, and the results of the Phase I Assessment must first be approved by
the Village Law Director. In addition, the Village Council shall approve all
Donations of real estate and in the case of non-residential property, shall
approve the environmental condition of the property before the Donation will be
accepted. The cost of any environmental impact assessment shall be paid for by
the Donor.

2. _(2)_ The Village shall obtain a Title Insurance Commitment the cost of which
shall be determined between the Donor and the Village. The Village Law Director
shall approve the condition of title before a Donation of real property will be
accepted. The Donor must provide the Village with all available documents
related to the condition of the property upon written request of the Village
before a Donation of real property will be accepted.

3. _(3)_ In considering whether to accept a Donation of real property, the
Village Council shall consider the following criteria:

    1. _(a)_ Is the property free from adverse environmental conditions.

    2. _(b)_ Is the property marketable and is the title acceptable to the Law
    Director.

    3. _(c)_ Does the Village have a use for the real property and is it
    accessible and useable by Village residents or the Village government.

    4. _(d)_ Are there any restrictions, reservations, easements, or other
    limitations associated with the use or sale of the property.

    5. _(e)_ Are there any carrying costs associated with the property other
    than insurance, such as storage fees, liens, mortgages, or other carrying
    costs.

    6. _(f)_ The Village may accept royalties from oil, gas, and other mineral
    interests when the gift is separated from ownership of the real property.
    The right to receive the royalties shall not include liabilities or other
    considerations that make receiving the gift inappropriate.

    7. _(g)_ The Village will not stipulate the value of any real property
    donated to the Village and it shall be the obligation of the Donor to
    determine such value for tax purposes. The Village will file [IRS Form
    8282][IRS Form 8282], or its future equivalent, in the event of future sale
    or exchange of donated real property made within three (3) years from the
    date of the gift for any property that the Village determines to have a
    value of $5,000 or more, or such other requirements hereafter established by
    the U.S. Congress in amending the Internal Revenue Code.

    8. _(h)_ The donated property cannot negatively affect public access or
    Village Services.

    9. _(i)_ <del>T</del><ins>Is t</ins>he property <del>must be </del>located
    within the Village, or any area outside the Village that is serviced by a
    Village supplied sewer and/or water service.

## VI. Procedures

1. _(1)_ The Village Chief Administrative Officer may accept or reject
unrestricted Donations of $10,000 or less in cash. The Village Council shall
approve or reject Donations of cash of more than $10,000 in accordance with the
guidelines set forth in this Donation Policy. The Chief Administrative Officer
and Council may decline any Donation which in their discretion does not comply
with this Donation Policy. Any Donation declined by the Chief Administrative
Officer may be appealed to the Village Council for reconsideration.

2. _(2)_ The Village Council will determine appropriate recognition for a
Donation at the time the Donation is accepted, taking into consideration the
nature and value of the Donation. The name of a Donor, but no company logos,
trademarks or the like, may be permitted on a sign, flyer or other materials
related to the program or activity supported by the Donations. The agreed upon
form of recognition shall be identified in the Donor receipt or in any Donation
Agreement that only the Village Council shall approve when reviewing whether to
accept or decline a Donation.

3. _(3)_ Established Fundraising for existing Village Donation programs shall
not require Village Council approval unless in the opinion of the Chief
Administrative Officer and/or Village Council the methods or targets of the
Fundraising change in a material way.

## VII. Prohibitions

1. _(1)_ No Village employee shall receive under any pretense, or seek, ask, or
share in any fee, reward or other reimbursement or gratuity for the performance
of official duties.

2. _(2)_ This prohibition shall apply equally to the receipt or solicitation by
the employee's spouse, child, parent, parent-in-law, brother, sister,
grandparent, or grandchild.

3. _(3)_ Whenever any gift, gratuity or Donation is offered to a Village
employee and the Village employee cannot determine if acceptance would be
prohibited or permitted, the employee shall submit the proposal through their
Department Head to the Chief Administrative Officer who may consult with the
Village Law Director. The proposal must include a description of the gift, the
name of the Donor, when the gift will be received, and an explanation of the
proposed disposition of the gift. The decision of the Chief Administrative
Officer as to whether the gift is permitted or prohibited shall be final.
Approval from the Village Council shall be required whenever any gift is offered
to a Department Head, the Chief Administrative officer, or an elected official.

4. _(4)_ The prohibitions above shall not apply to solicitation or acceptance of
anything of value from an existing friend or relative unrelated to any employee
duties or Village business and based on a pre-existing personal or family
relationship.

## VIII. Miscellaneous

1. _(1)_ This Donation Policy shall not be construed to create any right for an
individual or organization to make a Donation to the Village or to make a public
improvement on Village property.

2. _(2)_ The Village reserves the right to deny any Donation if, upon review,
acceptance of the Donation is determined to be not in the best interest of the
Village.

3. _(3)_ The Village, in accepting any Donation, shall not be obligated to
maintain, repair, or replace any program, facility or service created,
maintained, or enhanced by the Donation.

4. _(4)_ The Village shall not establish the value of any Donation, unless
required to do so by law.

[CFCO 113.01]:</chapters/chapter-113-ordinances-and-resolutions/#11301-publication-and-posting>
[CFCO 114]:</chapters/chapter-114-open-meetings>
[IRS Form 8282]:<https://www.irs.gov/forms-pubs/about-form-8282>
