---
layout: post
title: "Introduced by: Mayor & Council an Ordinance to Revise the Codified Ordinances by Adopting Current Replacement Pages and Declaring an Emergency"
ordinance_no: "2025-18"
---

- Introduced by: Drum
- **1st Reading (04/14/2025)**

_Whereas,_ various ordinances of a general and permanent nature have been passed by Council which should be included in the Codified Ordinances; and

_Whereas,_ certain traffic and misdemeanor provisions should be revised to comply with current State law;

**_Now, Therefore Be It Ordained by the Council of the Village of Chagrin Falls, State of Ohio:_**

**Section 1.** That the ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls, Ohio, of a general and permanent nature, as revised, recodified, rearranged and consolidated into component codes, titles, chapters and sections within the February 2025 Replacement Pages of the Codified Ordinances are hereby approved and adopted.

**Section 2.** That the following sections and chapters are hereby enacted, amended or repealed as respectively indicated in order to comply with current State law:

## Traffic Code

* [303.01][CFCO 303.01] Compliance with Lawful Order of Police Officer; Fleeing. (Amended)
* [303.083][CFCO 303.083] Impounding Vehicles on Public Property. (Amended)
* [333.07][CFCO 333.07] Street Racing, Stunt Driving and Street Takeovers Prohibited. (Amended)

## General Offenses Code

* [513.01][CFCO 513.01] Drug Abuse Control Definitions. (Amended)
* [513.02][CFCO 513.02] Gift of Marihuana. (Amended)
* [513.16][CFCO 513.16] Adult Use Cannabis Control; Limitations on Conduct by Individuals. (Added)
* [529.07][CFCO 529.07] Open Container Prohibited. (Amended)
* [533.03][CFCO 533.03] Unlawful Sexual Conduct with a Minor. (Amended)
* [533.04][CFCO 533.04] Sexual Imposition. (Amended)
* [533.08][CFCO 533.08] Procuring; Engagement in Sexual Activity for Hire. (Amended)
* [537.02][CFCO 537.02] Vehicular Homicide and Manslaughter. (Amended)
* [537.021][CFCO 537.021] Vehicular Assault in a Construction Zone. (Amended)
* [549.14][CFCO 549.14] Concealed Handgun Licenses; Possession of Revoked or Suspended License; Additional Restrictions; Posting Signs Prohibiting Possession. (Added)

**Section 3.** That the complete text of the sections listed above are set forth in full in the current replacement pages to the Codified Ordinances. Notice of adoption of each new section by reference to its title shall constitute sufficient publication of new matter contained therein.

**Section 4.** That actions of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this legislation were adopted in lawful meetings of this Council and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal action were in compliance with all legal requirements, including [Chapter 114][CFCO 114] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls.

**Section 5.** That in accordance with [Section 113.01][CFCO 113.01] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls, public notice of this Ordinance shall be given by posting a copy thereof for not less than fifteen (15) days on the Village Website.

**Section 6.** That this Ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, property, health and safety of the Village and for the further reason that this Ordinance must be immediately effective so that the Village can administer and enforce traffic offenses and general offenses consistent with the Ohio Revised Code provisions at the earliest time possible; wherefore, provided it receives two-thirds (⅔) of the votes of all members elected to Council, this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and immediately upon its passage by this Council and approval by the Mayor; otherwise, it shall take effect and be in force after the earliest period allowed by law.

[CFCO 113.01]:</chapters/chapter-113-ordinances-and-resolutions/#11301-publication-and-posting>
[CFCO 114]:</chapters/chapter-114-open-meetings>
[CFCO 303.01]:</chapters/chapter-303-enforcement-impounding-and-penalty/#30301-compliance-with-lawful-order-of-police-officer-fleeing>
[CFCO 303.083]:</chapters/chapter-303-enforcement-impounding-and-penalty/>
[CFCO 333.07]:</chapters/chapter-333-ovi-willful-misconduct-speed/#33307-street-racing-prohibited>
[CFCO 513.01]:</chapters/chapter-513-drug-abuse-control/#51301-definitions>
[CFCO 513.02]:</chapters/chapter-513-drug-abuse-control/#51302-gift-of-marihuana>
[CFCO 513.16]:</chapters/chapter-513-drug-abuse-control/>
[CFCO 529.07]:</chapters/chapter-529-liquor-control/#52907-open-container-prohibited>
[CFCO 533.03]:</chapters/chapter-533-obscenity-and-sex-offenses/#53303-unlawful-sexual-conduct-with-a-minor>
[CFCO 533.04]:</chapters/chapter-533-obscenity-and-sex-offenses/#53304-sexual-imposition>
[CFCO 533.08]:</chapters/chapter-533-obscenity-and-sex-offenses/#53308-procuring-engagement-in-sexual-activity-for-hire>
[CFCO 537.02]:</chapters/chapter-537-offenses-against-persons/#53702-vehicular-homicide-and-manslaughter>
[CFCO 537.021]:</chapters/chapter-537-offenses-against-persons/#537021-vehicular-assault-in-a-construction-zone>
[CFCO 549.14]:</chapters/chapter-549-weapons-and-explosives/#54914-concealed-handgun-licenses-possession-of-revoked-or-suspended-license-additional-restrictions-posting-signs-prohibiting-possession>
