---
layout: post
title: "An Ordinance Amending the Rules and Regulations for Cemeteries in the Village of Chagrin Falls and Amending Codified Ordinance Sections 953.07(c) Regarding Fees for Burials in the Village Cemeteries and Declaring an Emergency"
ordinance_no: "2025-13"
---

- Introduced by: DeBernardo
- 1st Reading (02/24/2025)

_Whereas,_ the Charter of the Village of Chagrin Falls provides that rules and regulations for the cemeteries are adopted by the Village Council; and

_Whereas,_ the Village is authorized by Revised Code [Section 759.03][ORC 759.03] to pass and provide for the enforcement of ordinances necessary to carry into effect [Sections 759.02][ORC 759.02] to [759.48][ORC 759.48], inclusive, of the Revised Code, and the Village may regulate public burial grounds and cemeteries owned by the Village, the improvement thereof, the burial of the dead therein, define the tenure and conditions on which lots therein shall be held, and protect such burial grounds and cemeteries and all fixtures thereon; and

_Whereas,_ Council has determined that [Chapter 953][CFCO 953] of the Codified Ordinances regarding the pricing for Grave Marker Foundation Fees should be amended and increased to add the following provisions.

**_Now Therefore, Be It Ordained by the Council of the Village of Chagrin Falls, Cuyahoga County, State of Ohio:_**

**Section 1.** [Section 953.07(c)][CFCO 953.07(c)] of the Codified Ordinances is hereby amended to read as follows:

> 3. _(c)_ **Grave Marker Foundation Fees.** All monuments shall have a concrete foundation built by the cemetery sexton, pursuant to municipal specifications.
>
>     |       |         |
>     |-------|---------|
>     | 2′×12″ | $350.00 |
>     | 3′×12″ | $400.00 |
>     | 4′×12″ | $450.00 |
>     | 5′×12″ | $525.00 |
>     | 6′×12″ | $575.00 |
>
> No charge for 2′×12″ foundation for approved Veterans Administration marker. All grave markers must be approved by the Sexton before installation in the Cemetery.

**Section 2.** [Section 953.0(c)][CFCO 953.07(c)] of the Codified Ordinances is hereby amended, with strikeouts for deletions and underlining for additions, to read as follows:

> 3. _(c)_ **Grave Marker Foundation Fees.** All monuments shall have a concrete foundation built by the cemetery sexton, pursuant to municipal specifications.
>
>     |       |                                    |
>     |-------|------------------------------------|
>     | 2′×12″ | <del>$325.00</del> <ins>$350</ins> |
>     | 3′×12″ | <del>$375.00</del> <ins>$400</ins> |
>     | 4′×12″ | <del>$425.00</del> <ins>$450</ins> |
>     | 5′×12″ | <del>$500.00</del> <ins>$525</ins> |
>     | 6′×12″ | <del>$550.00</del> <ins>$575</ins> |
>
> No charge for 2′×12″ foundation for approved Veterans Administration marker. All grave markers must be approved by the Sexton before installation in the Cemetery.

**Section 3.** Existing [Section 953.07(c)][CFCO 953.07(c)] of the Codified Ordinances is hereby repealed in its entirety which reads as follows:

> 3. _(c)_ **Grave Marker Foundation Fees.** All monuments shall have a concrete foundation built by the cemetery sexton, pursuant to municipal specifications.
>
>     |       |         |
>     |-------|---------|
>     | 2′×12″ | $325.00 |
>     | 3′×12″ | $375.00 |
>     | 4′×12″ | $425.00 |
>     | 5′×12″ | $500.00 |
>     | 6′×12″ | $550.00 |
>
> No charge for 2′×12″ foundation for approved Veterans Administration marker. All grave markers must be approved by the Sexton before installation in the Cemetery.

**Section 4.** The Chief Administrative Officer is hereby authorized to revise the Cemetery Rules and Regulations, consistent with this Ordinance and previous Ordinances to the extent not amended by this Ordinance, which shall be available for inspection and copying at the office of the Chief Administrative Officer. The Rules and Regulations adopted by the Chief Administrative Officer of the Village may be amended from time to time and shall be enforceable in accordance with [Sections 953.09][CFCO 953.09] and [953.99][CFCO 953.99] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls.

**Section 5.** That actions of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this legislation were adopted in lawful meetings of this Council and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal action were in compliance with all legal requirements, including [Chapter 114][CFCO 114] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls.

**Section 6.** That in accordance with [Section 113.01][CFCO 113.01] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls, public notice of this Ordinance shall be given by posting a copy thereof for not less than fifteen (15) days on the Village Website.

**Section 7.** This Ordinance is hereby declared to be an emergency measure immediately necessary for the preservation of the public peace, health and safety of the inhabitants of the Village and for the further reason that this Ordinance must be immediately effective so that the new rules and the costs related thereto are in effect immediately to avoid anyone from taking undue advantage of a price change for cemetery facilities; wherefore, provided it receives the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds (⅔) of all members elected to Council, this Ordinance shall be in full force and effect from and immediately upon its passage and approval by the Mayor, otherwise it shall take effect and be in force after the earliest period allowed by law.

[CFCO 113.01]:</chapters/chapter-113-ordinances-and-resolutions/#11301-publication-and-posting>
[CFCO 114]:</chapters/chapter-114-open-meetings>
[CFCO 953.07(c)]:</chapters/chapter-953-evergreen-cemetery/#95307(c)>
[CFCO 953.09]:</chapters/chapter-953-evergreen-cemetery/#95309-violation-of-rules-and-regulations>
[CFCO 953.99]:</chapters/chapter-953-evergreen-cemetery/#95399-penalty>
[CFCO 953]:</chapters/chapter-953-evergreen-cemetery/>
[ORC 759.02]:<https://codes.ohio.gov/ohio-revised-code/section-759.02>
[ORC 759.03]:<https://codes.ohio.gov/ohio-revised-code/section-759.03>
[ORC 759.48]:<https://codes.ohio.gov/ohio-revised-code/section-759.48>
