---
layout: post
title: "An Ordinance Repealing Chapter 959 of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls and Repealing the Provisions Relating to the Volunteer Senior Citizens Help Line"
ordinance_no: "2025-56"
---

- Introduced by: Grubbe
- **1st Reading (10/27/2025)**

_Whereas,_ Ordinance 2008-45, adopted September 22, 2008 by Village Council created [Chapter 959][CFCO 959] to provide a resource for senior citizens in Chagrin Falls and surrounding communities for non-emergency assistance and the Village created, by Ordinance, a volunteer senior citizen help line ("Help Line"); and

_Whereas,_ the Village never implemented [Chapter 959][CFCO 959], did not create a Help Line utilizing Village telephone lines and equipment nor was the Help Line staffed by volunteers; and

_Whereas,_ the Village Police Chief and the Village Council have determined that [Chapter 959][CFCO 959] is no longer needed to be in effect and that the services contemplated by the adoption of [Chapter 959][CFCO 959] are currently fulfilled by the services provided by the Village of Chagrin Falls, the Chagrin Falls Suburban Volunteer Firemen's Association, the Village wide general use of internet services available to residents of the Village as well as the existence of the Village website, the Village Council has determined to repeal [Chapter 959][CFCO 959] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls.

**_Now Therefore, Be It Ordained by the Council of the Village of Chagrin Falls, Cuyahoga County, State of Ohio:_**


**Section 1.** [Chapter 959][CFCO 959] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls, the full text of which is attached hereto and made a part hereof as Exhibit "A" is hereby repealed.

**Section 2.** That actions of this Council concerning and relating to the passage of this legislation were adopted in lawful meetings of this Council and that all deliberations of this Council and of any of its committees that resulted in such formal action were in compliance with all legal requirements, including [Chapter 114][CFCO 114] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls.

**Section 3.** That in accordance with [Section 113.01][CFCO 113.01] of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Chagrin Falls, public notice of this Ordinance shall be given by posting a copy thereof for not less than fifteen (15) days on the Village website.

**Section 4.** This Ordinance shall take effect and be enforced after the earliest period allowed by law.

## Exhibit "A"

# Chapter 959: Volunteer Senior Citizens Help Line

* [959.01   Creation and Staffing](#95901-creation-and-staffing)
* [959.02   Purpose](#95902-purpose)
* [959.03   Training and Duties of Volunteers and Supervisors](#95903-training-and-duties-of-volunteers-and-supervisors)
* [959.04   Records](#95904-records)
* [959.05   Contact With Seniors](#95905-contact-with-seniors)
* [959.06   Background Checks](#95906-background-checks)
* [959.07   Confidentiality](#95907-confidentiality)
* [959.08   Compensation](#95908-compensation)

## 959.01   Creation and Staffing

There is hereby created a Volunteer Senior Citizens Help Line ("Help Line"), which shall utilize Village telephone lines and equipment and shall be staffed by "Volunteers" appointed by the Mayor and confirmed by Council. The Mayor, subject to confirmation by Council, shall also appoint one or more "Volunteer Supervisors," who shall perform such duties as are provided for herein or as directed by the Mayor. Volunteers and Volunteer Supervisors shall serve at the pleasure of the Mayor.\
(Ord. 2008-45. Passed 9-22-08.)

## 959.02   Purpose

The Help Line shall provide a resource for senior citizens in Chagrin Falls and surrounding communities for non-emergency assistance. Such assistance may include providing information regarding resources which are available to senior citizens in the county or region, and other assistance which does not involve emergency services.\
(Ord. 2008-45. Passed 9-22-08.)

## 959.03 Training and Duties of Volunteers and Supervisors

1. _(a)_ The Volunteer Supervisors shall:

    1. _(1)_ Develop and implement appropriate training and supervision standards for Volunteers;

    2. _(2)_ Monitor the services provided by Volunteers by implementing appropriate record keeping and reviewing such records;

    3. _(3)_ Counsel Volunteers on appropriate methods of providing assistance to callers to the Help Line;

    4. _(4)_ Assist Volunteers with the provision of assistance to callers, if necessary.

    5. _(5)_ Advise the Mayor if a Volunteer is unable or unwilling to adhere to the rules and standards which have been developed.

2. _(b)_ The Volunteers shall:

    1. _(1)_ Not provide assistance to callers to the Help Line until having first received the training developed by the Volunteer Supervisors;

    2. _(2)_ Provide assistance to callers to the Help Line in accordance with the policies and training developed by the Volunteer Supervisors; and

3. _(3)_ Notify the Chagrin Falls Police Department immediately if a caller needs emergency assistance.\
(Ord. 2008-45. Passed 9-22-08.)

## 959.04 Records

Phone calls to the Help Line shall be documented, and the record of each phone call shall include the time, date, identity of the caller and purpose of the call, as well as any additional information required by the Volunteer Supervisors. The Volunteer Supervisors shall review the records on a regular basis.\
(Ord. 2008-45. Passed 9-22-08.)

## 959.05   Contact With Seniors

No Volunteer shall initiate in-person contact with a caller to the Help Line, who is not otherwise known to the Volunteer, unless a Volunteer Supervisor approves such in-person contact; such contact shall be documented in the manner prescribed by the Volunteer Supervisors.\
(Ord. 2008-45. Passed 9-22-08.)

## 959.06   Background Checks

The Village Police Department shall perform background checks on all Volunteers and Volunteer Supervisors prior to the commencement of their duties with the Help Line.\
(Ord. 2008-45. Passed 9-22-08.)

## 959.07   Confidentiality

Volunteers should not promise confidentiality to callers to the help line. No Volunteer or Supervisor, however, shall publicly discuss or publish information obtained in the performance of duties as a Volunteer or Supervisor, except for training or educational purposes; if such information is used for training or educational purposes, the identity of the caller should not be revealed.\
(Ord. 2008-45. Passed 9-22-08.)

## 959.08   Compensation

All Volunteers and Volunteer Supervisors shall serve without compensation.\
(Ord. 2008-45. Passed 9-22-08.)

[CFCO 113.01]:</chapters/chapter-113-ordinances-and-resolutions/#11301-publication-and-posting>
[CFCO 114]:</chapters/chapter-114-open-meetings>
[CFCO 959]:</chapters/chapter-959-volunteer-senior-citizens-help-line/>
