---
layout: chapter
part_no: 0
article_no: 6
title: "Article VI: Chief Administrative Officer"
---

## Sections

* [Section VI-1: Appointment and term](#section-vi-1-appointment-and-term)
* [Section VI-2: Duties](#section-vi-2-duties)

## Section VI-1: Appointment and term

A Chief Administrative Officer shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to
confirmation by a majority vote of all members of Council. The Chief
Administrative Officer may be removed by the Mayor, but such removal shall not
take place without the concurrence of a majority of all the members of Council.
In the event the position of Chief Administrative Officer is vacant for ninety
(90) or more days, Council may appoint the Chief Administrative Officer.\
(Amended 11-4-86)

## Section VI-2: Duties

The Chief Administrative Officer shall be the head of the Department of Public
Service and shall:

1. _(a)_ Manage, conduct, and supervise all operations of the Municipally-owned
utilities.

2. _(b)_ Make investigations and analyses of finances of the Municipally-owned
utilities, and make recommendations to Council and the Mayor concerning all
charges and rates to be made for services rendered and all extensions and
curtailments of service.

3. _(c)_ Make investigations and recommendations to Council and the Mayor
concerning all new construction, maintenance and replacement of existing
facilities and equipment, and planning of future operations of the Municipally-
owned utilities.

4. _(d)_  Be responsible for the construction, improvement, repair and
maintenance of all public streets and alleys, public buildings, drains, ditches,
storm sewer facilities, parks, playgrounds, public cemeteries, and public
places.

5. _(e)_ Make investigations and recommendations to the Mayor and Council
concerning bids for public contracts.

6. _(f)_ Supervise the lighting, sprinkling and cleaning of public streets and
places.

7. _(g)_ Be the Building Inspector of the Municipality and charged with the duty
of issuing building permits and enforcing the zoning and building code
regulations of the Municipality.

8. _(h)_ Act as the purchasing agent for the Municipality and have such powers
and duties in connection therewith as prescribed by Council.

9. _(i)_ Have such other powers and duties as may be prescribed by ordinance of
Council.\
(Amended 11-8-16)
