---
layout: chapter
part_no: 0
article_no: 10
title: "Article X: Initiative, Referendum and Recall"
---

## Sections

* [Section X-1: Initiative and referendum](#section-x-1-initiative-and-referendum)
* [Section X-2: Recall](#section-x-2-recall)
* [Section X-3: Petitions](#section-x-3-petitions)
* [Section X-4: Rezoning-referendum](#section-x-4-rezoning-referendum)

## Section X-1: Initiative and referendum

Ordinances and resolutions may be proposed by initiative petition and adopted by
election, and ordinances and resolutions adopted by Council shall be subject to
referendum, to the extent and in the manner now or hereafter provided by the
Constitution or laws of the State of Ohio. Initiative and referendum petitions
shall be filed with the Clerk of Council.\
(Amended 11-2-76)

## Section X-2: Recall

The electors shall have the power to remove from office by a recall election any
elected officer of the Village. If an elected officer shall have served for six
months of a term, a petition demanding removal may be filed with the Clerk of
Council who shall note thereon the name and address of the person filing the
petition and the date of such filing. Such petition shall be signed by at least
that number of electors which equals twenty-five per cent of the electors voting
for the office of Mayor at the past preceding regular Municipal election. Within
ten days after the day on which such petition shall have been filed, the Clerk
of Council shall determine whether or not it meets the requirements hereof. If
the Clerk of Council shall find the petition insufficient, he or she shall
promptly certify the particulars in which the petition is defective, deliver a
copy of the certificate to the person who filed the petition, and make a record
of such delivery. Such persons shall be allowed a period of twenty days after
the day on which such delivery was made in which to make the petition
sufficient. If the Clerk of Council shall find the petition sufficient, he or
she shall promptly so certify to the Council, shall deliver a copy of such
certificate to the officer whose removal is sought, and shall make a record of
such delivery. If such officer shall not resign within five (5) days after the
day on which such delivery shall have been made, the Council shall thereupon fix
a day for holding a special recall election, not less than sixty (60) nor more
than ninety (90) days after the date of such delivery. At such recall election
this question shall be placed on the ballot: "Shall (naming the officer) be
removed from office as (naming the office) of the Village/City of Chagrin
Falls?" with provision on the ballot for voting affirmatively or negatively on
such question. If a majority of the votes cast at such election shall be voted
negatively, such officer shall remain in office. If a majority of the votes cast
shall be voted affirmatively, such officer shall be considered as removed, the
office shall be deemed vacant, and such vacancy shall be filled as provided in
this Charter. The officer removed by such recall election shall not be eligible
for appointment to the vacancy created thereby.\
(Amended 11-2-76; 11-7-17)

## Section X-3: Petitions

1. _(a)_ Any initiative, referendum or recall petition may be circulated in
separate parts, but the separate parts shall be bound together and filed as one
instrument. Each part shall contain in the case of the initiative or referendum,
a full and correct copy of the title and text of the proposed or referred
ordinance or resolution, and in the case of the recall, the name and office of
the person whose removal is sought and a statement in not more than 200 words of
the grounds for the proposed removal. The manner of signing, the method of
circulating, the form and requirements as to the affidavit, and the other
requirements of the general laws of the State of Ohio regulating initiative and
referendum petitions, shall apply in the case of initiative, referendum and
recall in this Municipality, except as otherwise provided in this Charter.

2. _(b)_ Within thirty (30) days after the final passage by Council and approval
by the Mayor of an Ordinance or Resolution, that was not adopted as an emergency
ordinance, a referendum petition signed by at least that number of electors
which equals ten percent (10%) of the electors voting at the last preceding
general municipal election, may be filed with the Clerk of Council, requesting
that such ordinance or resolution be either repealed or submitted to a vote of
electors. If the referendum petition is filed, the Clerk of Council shall first
ascertain the sufficiency of the petition, and if found sufficient, the Council
shall thereupon, within thirty (30) days of the filing of such petition,
reconsider such ordinance or resolution. If, upon such reconsideration, the
ordinance or resolution is not repealed, the Council shall submit it to a vote
of the electors at the first primary or general election in any year occurring
more than ninety (90) days after the Council determines that it will not repeal
the ordinance or resolution. No such ordinance or resolution shall go into
effect until approved by a majority of those voting thereon.

3. _(c)_ Ordinances and resolutions providing for a tax levy or for improvements
petitioned for by the owners of a majority of the front footage of the property
benefited and to be specially assessed therefor, and appropriation ordinances
and resolutions, limited to the subject of appropriations, shall not be subject
to referendum. Further, whenever the Council is required to pass more than one
ordinance, resolution or other action to complete the financing and assessment
of the cost of any public improvement previously finally approved, only the
first resolution, ordinance or other action relating to said financing and
assessment shall be subject to referendum, and any subsequent resolution,
ordinance or other action relating to the financing and assessment of the cost
of said public improvement, as previously finally approved, shall not be subject
to referendum.

4. _(d)_ Any Ordinance adopted to certify an initiative to the Board of
Elections to be considered by the electors shall not be subject to referendum.

5. _(e)_ Ordinances and other measures may be proposed by initiative petition
and adopted by election, in the manner now or hereinafter provided by the
Constitution or the laws of Ohio, except that ordinances proposed by initiative
petition to amend the Planning and Zoning Code and/or the Zoning Map of the
Municipality shall be subject to the procedures, process, review certification
of the Board of Elections and other requirements contained in Section X of this
Charter, and only in the event that this Charter is silent on a matter, or there
is no conflict with this Charter, in accordance with the laws of Ohio. It is
hereby declared that in the event of a conflict between the Charter and the Ohio
Revised Code, and as permitted by the home rule powers granted to
municipalities, and the Ohio Revised Code and in particular Ohio Revised Code
[Section 731.41][ORC 731.41], the manner, means, method, consideration
and placement on the ballot of initiatives shall be governed by this Charter.

6. _(f)_ This section shall be severable and if any subsection, paragraph, part,
word or application thereof is held invalid for any reason, such holding shall
not invalidate or affect the force and effect of any other subsection,
paragraph, part, word or application thereof.

7. _(g)_ After the petitioners have submitted their initiative petitions to the
Clerk of Council, and upon completion of circulation within the Municipality,
the Clerk of Council shall submit such petitions to the Board of Elections to
determine if there are sufficient valid signatures of electors of the
Municipality. The Board of Elections shall certify whether such petitions
contain the signatures of not less than ten (10%) of the number of electors who
voted at the last preceding general municipal election in the Municipality. In
the event such initiative petitions do not contain sufficient signatures to meet
or exceed ten percent (10%) of the number of electors that voted in the last
preceding general municipal election, the petitioners may seek additional
signatures of electors of the Municipality.

8. _(h)_ Once the initiative petitions are certified by the Board of Elections
to have not less than ten percent (10%) of the number of electors voting at the
last preceding general municipal election, the initiative shall be placed on the
agenda for the next regular Council meeting. At the first regular Council
meeting at which the initiative is considered, a public hearing before Council
shall be set with at least ten (10) days advance notice. The notice shall
conform to the requirements for notification of public hearings whenever any
amendment to the Planning and Zoning Code and/or Zoning Map of the Municipality
is being proposed as provided in the Planning and Zoning Code of the
Municipality. Public hearings shall be held at a regular Council meeting.\
(Amended 11-2-21)

## Section X-4: Rezoning-referendum

Any ordinance which provides for a change in the existing Municipal Zoning Map
or which otherwise provides for a change in the use of property from the uses
presently authorized by the existing Municipal Zoning Map, including municipally
owned or controlled property, shall be subject to referendum by submission to
the electors of the Municipality upon the filing with the Municipal Clerk of a
petition signed by not less than five percent (5%) of the number of electors who
voted for Governor at the most recent general election for the office of
Governor in the Municipality within thirty (30) days after the ordinance shall
have been filed with the Mayor, or in case the Mayor has vetoed the Ordinance
within thirty (30) days after Council has passed the ordinance over a veto; the
Municipal Clerk shall certify the text of the ordinance to the Cuyahoga County
Board of Elections for submission to the electors of the Municipality for
rejection or approval at the next succeeding general, primary or special
election in the Municipality.\
(Amended 11-8-16.)

[ORC 731.41]:<https://codes.ohio.gov/ohio-revised-code/section-731.41>
